Defined in header <random>

template< class RealType = double >

class normal_distribution;

(since C++11)

Generates random numbers according to the Normal (or Gaussian) random number distribution. It is defined as:

\(\small{f(x;\mu,\sigma)}=\frac{1}{\sigma\sqrt{2\pi} }\exp{(-\frac{1}{2}{(\frac{x-\mu}{\sigma})}^2)}\)f(x; μ,σ) = 1
σ√2π

exp⎛
⎜
⎝ -1
2

⎛
⎜
⎝ x-μ
σ

⎞
⎟
⎠2
⎞
⎟
⎠

Here \(\small\mu\)μ is the Mean and \(\small\sigma\)σ is the Standard deviation (stddev).

std::normal_distribution satisfies all requirements of RandomNumberDistribution.

### Template parameters

RealType

-

The result type generated by the generator. The effect is undefined if this is not one of float, double, or long double.

### Member types

Member type

Definition

result_type (C++11)

RealType

param_type (C++11)

the type of the parameter set, see RandomNumberDistribution.

### Member functions

(constructor)

(C++11)

constructs new distribution 
(public member function)

reset

(C++11)

resets the internal state of the distribution 
(public member function)

#### Generation 

operator()

(C++11)

generates the next random number in the distribution 
(public member function)

#### Characteristics 

meanstddev

(C++11)

returns the distribution parameters 
(public member function)

param

(C++11)

gets or sets the distribution parameter object 
(public member function)

min

(C++11)

returns the minimum potentially generated value 
(public member function)

max

(C++11)

returns the maximum potentially generated value 
(public member function)

### Non-member functions

operator==operator!=

(C++11)(C++11)(removed in C++20)

compares two distribution objects 
(function)

operator<<operator>>

(C++11)

performs stream input and output on pseudo-random number distribution 
(function template)

### Example

Run this code

#include <cmath>
#include <iomanip>
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <random>
#include <string>
 
int main()
{
std::random_device rd{};
std::mt19937 gen{rd()};
 
// Values near the mean are the most likely. Standard deviation
// affects the dispersion of generated values from the mean.
std::normal_distribution d{5.0, 2.0};
 
// Draw a sample from the normal distribution and round it to an integer.
auto random_int = [&d, &gen]{ return std::lround(d(gen)); };
 
std::map<long, unsigned> histogram{};
for (auto n{10000}; n; --n)
++histogram[random_int()];
 
for (const auto [k, v] : histogram)
std::cout << std::setw(2) << k << ' ' << std::string(v / 200, '*') << '\n';
}

Possible output:

-1
0
1 *
2 ***
3 *****
4 ********
5 *********
6 *********
7 ******
8 ***
9 *
10
11

### External links

1. 
Weisstein, Eric W. "Normal Distribution." From MathWorld — A Wolfram Web Resource.

2. 
Normal distribution — From Wikipedia.