Defined in header <random>

template< class RealType = double >

class piecewise_linear_distribution;

(since C++11)

std::piecewise_linear_distribution produces random floating-point numbers, which are distributed according to a linear probability density function within each of the several subintervals \(\small{[b_i, b_{i+1})}\)[bi, bi+1). The distribution is such that the probability density at each interval boundary is exactly the predefined value \(\small{p_i}\)pi.

The probability density for any \(\small{ b_i \le x < b_{i+1} }\)bi≤x<bi+1 is \(\small{p_i\frac{b_{i+1}-x}{b_{i+1}-b_i} + p_{i+1}\frac{x-b_i}{b_{i+1}-b_i} }\)pi bi+1-x
bi+1-bi

+ pi+1 x-bi
bi+1-bi

, where probability densities at interval boundaries \(\small{p_k}\)pk are calculated as \(\small{w_k/S}\)wk/S where \(\small{S}\)S is the sum of all \(\small{\frac{1}{2}(w_k + w_{k+1})(b_{k+1} - b_k)}\) 1
2

(wk+wk+1)(bk+1−bk).
The set of interval boundaries \(\small{b_i}\)bi and the set of weights at boundaries \(\small{w_i}\)wi are the parameters of this distribution.

std::piecewise_linear_distribution satisfies all requirements of RandomNumberDistribution.

### Template parameters

RealType

-

The result type generated by the generator. The effect is undefined if this is not one of float, double, or long double.

### Member types

Member type

Definition

result_type (C++11)

RealType

param_type (C++11)

the type of the parameter set, see RandomNumberDistribution.

### Member functions

(constructor)

(C++11)

constructs new distribution 
(public member function)

reset

(C++11)

resets the internal state of the distribution 
(public member function)

#### Generation 

operator()

(C++11)

generates the next random number in the distribution 
(public member function)

#### Characteristics 

intervalsdensities

(C++11)

returns the distribution parameters 
(public member function)

param

(C++11)

gets or sets the distribution parameter object 
(public member function)

min

(C++11)

returns the minimum potentially generated value 
(public member function)

max

(C++11)

returns the maximum potentially generated value 
(public member function)

### Non-member functions

operator==operator!=

(C++11)(C++11)(removed in C++20)

compares two distribution objects 
(function)

operator<<operator>>

(C++11)

performs stream input and output on pseudo-random number distribution 
(function template)

### Example

Run this code

#include <iomanip>
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <random>
#include <string>
 
int main()
{
std::random_device rd;
std::mt19937 gen{rd()};
// increase the probability from 0 to 5
// remain flat from 5 to 10
// decrease from 10 to 15 at the same rate
std::vector<double> i{0, 5, 10, 15};
std::vector<double> w{0, 1, 1, 0};
std::piecewise_linear_distribution<> d{i.begin(), i.end(), w.begin()};
 
std::map<int, int> hist;
for (int n{}; n < 1e4; ++n)
++hist[d(gen)];
 
for (auto [x, y] : hist)
std::cout << std::setw(2) << std::setfill('0') << x
<< ' ' << std::string(y / 100, '*') << '\n';
}

Possible output:

00 *
01 ***
02 ****
03 ******
04 *********
05 *********
06 *********
07 **********
08 *********
09 **********
10 *********
11 *******
12 ****
13 ***
14 *