Defined in header <random>

template<

    class Engine,

    std::size_t P, std::size_t R

> class discard_block_engine;

(since C++11)

discard_block_engine is a pseudo-random number engine adaptor that discards a certain amount of data produced by the base engine. From each block of size P generated by the base engine, the adaptor keeps only R numbers, discarding the rest.

### Template parameters

Engine

-

the type of the wrapped engine.

P

-

the size of a block. Expected that \(\small{P>0}\)P > 0.

R

-

the number of used numbers per block. Expected that \(\small{0<R\le P}\)0 < R ≤ P.

Type requirements

-

Engine must meet the requirements of RandomNumberEngine.

### Member types

Member type

Definition

result_type (C++11)

Engine::result_type

### Member functions

(constructor)

(C++11)

constructs the engine adaptor 
(public member function)

seed

(C++11)

sets the state of the underlying engine 
(public member function)

base

(C++11)

returns the underlying engine 
(public member function)

#### Generation 

operator()

(C++11)

advances the state of the underlying engine and returns the generated value 
(public member function)

discard

(C++11)

advances the adaptor's state by a specified amount 
(public member function)

#### Characteristics 

min

[static] (C++11)

gets the smallest possible value in the output range of the underlying engine. 
(public static member function)

max

[static] (C++11)

gets the largest possible value in the output range of the underlying engine. 
(public static member function)

### Non-member functions

operator==operator!=

(C++11)(C++11)(removed in C++20)

compares the internal states of the adaptors and underlying engines 
(function)

operator<<operator>>

(C++11)

performs stream input and output on pseudo-random number engine adaptor 
(function)

### Member constants

constexpr size_t block_size

[static] (C++11)

the size of the block, P 
(public static member constant)

constexpr size_t used_block

[static] (C++11)

the number of used numbers per block, R 
(public static member constant)

### Example

This section is incomplete
Reason: no example