Defined in header <random>

template< class RealType = double >

class exponential_distribution;

(since C++11)

Produces random non-negative floating-point values \(\small x\)x, distributed according to probability density function:

\(\small P(x|\lambda) = \lambda e^{-\lambda x}\)P(x|λ) = λe-λx

The value obtained is the time/distance until the next random event if random events occur at constant rate \(\small\lambda\)λ per unit of time/distance. For example, this distribution describes the time between the clicks of a Geiger counter or the distance between point mutations in a DNA strand.

This is the continuous counterpart of std::geometric_distribution.

std::exponential_distribution satisfies RandomNumberDistribution.

### Template parameters

RealType

-

The result type generated by the generator. The effect is undefined if this is not one of float, double, or long double.

### Member types

Member type

Definition

result_type (C++11)

RealType

param_type (C++11)

the type of the parameter set, see RandomNumberDistribution.

### Member functions

(constructor)

(C++11)

constructs new distribution 
(public member function)

reset

(C++11)

resets the internal state of the distribution 
(public member function)

#### Generation 

operator()

(C++11)

generates the next random number in the distribution 
(public member function)

#### Characteristics 

lambda

(C++11)

returns the lambda distribution parameter (rate of events) 
(public member function)

param

(C++11)

gets or sets the distribution parameter object 
(public member function)

min

(C++11)

returns the minimum potentially generated value 
(public member function)

max

(C++11)

returns the maximum potentially generated value 
(public member function)

### Non-member functions

operator==operator!=

(C++11)(C++11)(removed in C++20)

compares two distribution objects 
(function)

operator<<operator>>

(C++11)

performs stream input and output on pseudo-random number distribution 
(function template)

### Notes

Some implementations may occasionally return infinity if RealType is float. This is LWG issue 2524.

### Example

Run this code

#include <iomanip>
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <random>
#include <string>
 
int main()
{
std::random_device rd;
std::mt19937 gen(rd());
 
// if particles decay once per second on average,
// how much time, in seconds, until the next one?
std::exponential_distribution<> d(1);
 
std::map<int, int> hist;
for (int n = 0; n != 10000; ++n)
++hist[2 * d(gen)];
 
for (auto const& [x, y] : hist)
std::cout << std::fixed << std::setprecision(1)
<< x / 2.0 << '-' << (x + 1) / 2.0 << ' '
<< std::string(y / 200, '*') << '\n';
}

Possible output:

0.0-0.5 *******************
0.5-1.0 ***********
1.0-1.5 *******
1.5-2.0 ****
2.0-2.5 **
2.5-3.0 *
3.0-3.5
3.5-4.0

### External links

Weisstein, Eric W. "Exponential Distribution." From MathWorld — A Wolfram Web Resource.