Defined in header <cstdlib>

int rand();

Returns a pseudo-random integral value from the range [​0​, RAND_MAX].

std::srand() seeds the pseudo-random number generator used by rand().
If rand() is used before any calls to std::srand(), rand() behaves as if it was seeded with std::srand(1).

Each time rand() is seeded with std::srand(), it must produce the same sequence of values on successive calls.

Other functions in the standard library may call rand. It is implementation-defined which functions do so.

It is implementation-defined whether rand() is thread-safe.

### Return value

Pseudo-random integral value between ​0​ and RAND_MAX.

### Notes

There are no guarantees as to the quality of the random sequence produced.
In the past, some implementations of rand() have had serious shortcomings in the randomness, distribution and period of the sequence produced (in one well-known example, the low-order bit simply alternated between 1 and ​0​ between calls).

rand() is not recommended for serious random-number generation needs. It is recommended to use C++11's random number generation facilities to replace rand().(since C++11)

### Example

The function bounded_rand() below is an adapted version of Debiased Modulo (Once).

Run this code

#include <cstdlib>
#include <ctime>
#include <initializer_list>
#include <iostream>
 
unsigned bounded_rand(unsigned range)
{
for (unsigned x, r;;)
if (x = rand(), r = x % range, x - r <= -range)
return r;
}
 
int main() 
{
std::srand(std::time({})); // use current time as seed for random generator
const int random_value = std::rand();
std::cout << "Random value on [0, " << RAND_MAX << "]: " << random_value << '\n';
 
for (const unsigned sides : {2, 4, 6, 8})
{
std::cout << "Roll " << sides << "-sided die 8 times: ";
for (int n = 8; n; --n)
std::cout << 1 + bounded_rand(sides) << ' ';
 
std::cout << '\n';
}
}

Possible output:

Random value on [0, 2147483647]: 948298199
Roll 2-sided die 8 times: 2 2 1 2 1 1 2 2 
Roll 4-sided die 8 times: 1 3 4 2 1 3 3 1 
Roll 6-sided die 8 times: 3 2 1 6 6 4 4 2 
Roll 8-sided die 8 times: 4 5 6 6 3 6 1 2

### See also

uniform_int_distribution

(C++11)

produces integer values evenly distributed across a range 
(class template)

srand

seeds pseudo-random number generator 
(function)

RAND_MAX

maximum possible value generated by std::rand 
(macro constant)

randint

generates a random integer in the specified range 
(function template)

C documentation for rand