Defined in header <stdlib.h>

int system( const char *command );

Calls the host environment's command processor with the parameter command. Returns an implementation-defined value (usually the value that the invoked program returns).

If command is a null pointer, checks if the host environment has a command processor and returns a nonzero value if and only if the command processor exists.

### Parameters

command

-

character string identifying the command to be run in the command processor. If a null pointer is given, command processor is checked for existence

### Return value

Implementation-defined value. If command is a null pointer, returns a nonzero value if and only if the command processor exists.

### Notes

On POSIX systems, the return value can be decomposed using WEXITSTATUS and WSTOPSIG.

The related POSIX function popen makes the output generated by command available to the caller.

### Example

In this example there is a system call of the unix command date +%A and a system call to (possibly installed) gcc compiler with command-line argument (--version):

Run this code

#include <stdlib.h>
 
int main(void) {
system("date +%A");
system("gcc --version");
}

Possible output:

Wednesday
gcc (GCC) 11.2.0
...

### References

- C17 standard (ISO/IEC 9899:2018): 

- 7.22.4.8 The system function (p: 257)

- C11 standard (ISO/IEC 9899:2011): 

- 7.22.4.8 The system function (p: 353-354)

- C99 standard (ISO/IEC 9899:1999): 

- 7.20.4.6 The system function (p: 317)

- C89/C90 standard (ISO/IEC 9899:1990): 

- 4.10.4.5 The system function 

### See also

C++ documentation for system