# In.not: Non-aims

The rules are not intended to be minimal or orthogonal.
In particular, general rules can be simple, but unenforceable.
Also, it is often hard to understand the implications of a general rule.
More specialized rules are often easier to understand and to enforce, but without general rules, they would just be a long list of special cases.
We provide rules aimed at helping novices as well as rules supporting expert use.
Some rules can be completely enforced, but others are based on heuristics.

These rules are not meant to be read serially, like a book.
You can browse through them using the links.
However, their main intended use is to be targets for tools.
That is, a tool looks for violations and the tool returns links to violated rules.
The rules then provide reasons, examples of potential consequences of the violation, and suggested remedies.

These guidelines are not intended to be a substitute for a tutorial treatment of C++.
If you need a tutorial for some given level of experience, see [the references](#s-references).

This is not a guide on how to convert old C++ code to more modern code.
It is meant to articulate ideas for new code in a concrete fashion.
However, see [the modernization section](#s-modernizing) for some possible approaches to modernizing/rejuvenating/upgrading.
Importantly, the rules support gradual adoption: It is typically infeasible to completely convert a large code base all at once.

These guidelines are not meant to be complete or exact in every language-technical detail.
For the final word on language definition issues, including every exception to general rules and every feature, see the ISO C++ standard.

The rules are not intended to force you to write in an impoverished subset of C++.
They are *emphatically* not meant to define a, say, Java-like subset of C++.
They are not meant to define a single "one true C++" language.
We value expressiveness and uncompromised performance.

The rules are not value-neutral.
They are meant to make code simpler and more correct/safer than most existing C++ code, without loss of performance.
They are meant to inhibit perfectly valid C++ code that correlates with errors, spurious complexity, and poor performance.

The rules are not precise to the point where a person (or machine) can follow them without thinking.
The enforcement parts try to be that, but we would rather leave a rule or a definition a bit vague
and open to interpretation than specify something precisely and wrong.
Sometimes, precision comes only with time and experience.
Design is not (yet) a form of Math.

The rules are not perfect.
A rule can do harm by prohibiting something that is useful in a given situation.
A rule can do harm by failing to prohibit something that enables a serious error in a given situation.
A rule can do a lot of harm by being vague, ambiguous, unenforceable, or by enabling every solution to a problem.
It is impossible to completely meet the "do no harm" criteria.
Instead, our aim is the less ambitious: "Do the most good for most programmers";
if you cannot live with a rule, object to it, ignore it, but don't water it down until it becomes meaningless.
Also, suggest an improvement.
