# In.force: Enforcement

Rules with no enforcement are unmanageable for large code bases.
Enforcement of all rules is possible only for a small weak set of rules or for a specific user community.

* But we want lots of rules, and we want rules that everybody can use.
* But different people have different needs.
* But people don't like to read lots of rules.
* But people can't remember many rules.

So, we need subsetting to meet a variety of needs.

* But arbitrary subsetting leads to chaos.

We want guidelines that help a lot of people, make code more uniform, and strongly encourage people to modernize their code.
We want to encourage best practices, rather than leave all to individual choices and management pressures.
The ideal is to use all rules; that gives the greatest benefits.

This adds up to quite a few dilemmas.
We try to resolve those using tools.
Each rule has an **Enforcement** section listing ideas for enforcement.
Enforcement might be done by code review, by static analysis, by compiler, or by run-time checks.
Wherever possible, we prefer "mechanical" checking (humans are slow, inaccurate, and bore easily) and static checking.
Run-time checks are suggested only rarely where no alternative exists; we do not want to introduce "distributed bloat".
Where appropriate, we label a rule (in the **Enforcement** sections) with the name of groups of related rules (called "profiles").
A rule can be part of several profiles, or none.
For a start, we have a few profiles corresponding to common needs (desires, ideals):

* **type**: No type violations (reinterpreting a `T` as a `U` through casts, unions, or varargs)
* **bounds**: No bounds violations (accessing beyond the range of an array)
* **lifetime**: No leaks (failing to `delete` or multiple `delete`) and no access to invalid objects (dereferencing `nullptr`, using a dangling reference).

The profiles are intended to be used by tools, but also serve as an aid to the human reader.
We do not limit our comment in the **Enforcement** sections to things we know how to enforce; some comments are mere wishes that might inspire some tool builder.

Tools that implement these rules shall respect the following syntax to explicitly suppress a rule:

    [[gsl::suppress("tag")]]

and optionally with a message (following usual C++11 standard attribute syntax):

    [[gsl::suppress("tag", justification: "message")]]

where

* `"tag"` is a string literal with the anchor name of the item where the Enforcement rule appears (e.g., for [C.134](#rh-public) it is "rh-public"), the
name of a profile group-of-rules ("type", "bounds", or "lifetime"),
or a specific rule in a profile ([type.4](#pro-type-cstylecast), or [bounds.2](#pro-bounds-arrayindex)). Any text that is not one of those should be rejected.

* `"message"` is a string literal
