# P.3: Express intent

##### Reason

Unless the intent of some code is stated (e.g., in names or comments), it is impossible to tell whether the code does what it is supposed to do.

##### Example

    gsl::index i = 0;
    while (i < v.size()) {
        // ... do something with v[i] ...
    }

The intent of "just" looping over the elements of `v` is not expressed here. The implementation detail of an index is exposed (so that it might be misused), and `i` outlives the scope of the loop, which might or might not be intended. The reader cannot know from just this section of code.

Better:

    for (const auto& x : v) { /* do something with the value of x */ }

Now, there is no explicit mention of the iteration mechanism, and the loop operates on a reference to `const` elements so that accidental modification cannot happen. If modification is desired, say so:

    for (auto& x : v) { /* modify x */ }

For more details about for-statements, see [ES.71](#res-for-range).
Sometimes better still, use a named algorithm. This example uses the `for_each` from the Ranges TS because it directly expresses the intent:

    for_each(v, [](int x) { /* do something with the value of x */ });
    for_each(par, v, [](int x) { /* do something with the value of x */ });

The last variant makes it clear that we are not interested in the order in which the elements of `v` are handled.

A programmer should be familiar with

* [The guidelines support library](#gsl-guidelines-support-library)
* [The ISO C++ Standard Library](#sl-the-standard-library)
* Whatever foundation libraries are used for the current project(s)

##### Note

Alternative formulation: Say what should be done, rather than just how it should be done.

##### Note

Some language constructs express intent better than others.

##### Example

If two `int`s are meant to be the coordinates of a 2D point, say so:

    draw_line(int, int, int, int);  // obscure: (x1,y1,x2,y2)? (x,y,h,w)? ...?
                                    // need to look up documentation to know

    draw_line(Point, Point);        // clearer

##### Enforcement

Look for common patterns for which there are better alternatives

* simple `for` loops vs. range-`for` loops
* `f(T*, int)` interfaces vs. `f(span<T>)` interfaces
* loop variables in too large a scope
* naked `new` and `delete`
* functions with many parameters of built-in types

There is a huge scope for cleverness and semi-automated program transformation.
