# F.21: To return multiple "out" values, prefer returning a struct

##### Reason

A return value is self-documenting as an "output-only" value.
Note that C++ does have multiple return values, by convention of using tuple-like types (`struct`, `array`, `tuple`, etc.),
possibly with the extra convenience of structured bindings (C++17) at the call site.
Prefer using a named `struct` if possible.
Otherwise, a `tuple` is useful in variadic templates.

##### Example

    // BAD: output-only parameter documented in a comment
    int f(const string& input, /*output only*/ string& output_data)
    {
        // ...
        output_data = something();
        return status;
    }

    // GOOD: self-documenting
    struct f_result { int status; string data; };

    f_result f(const string& input)
    {
        // ...
        return {status, something()};
    }

C++98's standard library used this style in places, by returning `pair` in some functions.
For example, given a `set<string> my_set`, consider:

    // C++98
    pair<set::iterator, bool> result = my_set.insert("Hello");
    if (result.second)
        do_something_with(result.first);    // workaround

With C++17 we are able to use "structured bindings" to give each member a name:

    if (auto [ iter, success ] = my_set.insert("Hello"); success)
        do_something_with(iter);

A `struct` with meaningful names is more common in modern C++.
See for example `ranges::min_max_result`, `from_chars_result`, and others.

##### Exception

Sometimes, we need to pass an object to a function to manipulate its state.
In such cases, passing the object by reference [`T&`](#rf-inout) is usually the right technique.
Explicitly passing an in-out parameter back out again as a return value is often not necessary.
For example:

    istream& operator>>(istream& in, string& s);    // much like std::operator>>()

    for (string s; in >> s; ) {
        // do something with line
    }

Here, both `s` and `in` are used as in-out parameters.
We pass `in` by (non-`const`) reference to be able to manipulate its state.
We pass `s` to avoid repeated allocations.
By reusing `s` (passed by reference), we allocate new memory only when we need to expand `s`'s capacity.
This technique is sometimes called the "caller-allocated out" pattern and is particularly useful for types,
such as `string` and `vector`, that need to do free store allocations.

To compare, if we passed out all values as return values, we would write something like this:

    struct get_string_result { istream& in; string s; };

    get_string_result get_string(istream& in)  // not recommended
    {
        string s;
        in >> s;
        return { in, move(s) };
    }

    for (auto [in, s] = get_string(cin); in; s = get_string(in).s) {
        // do something with string
    }

We consider that significantly less elegant with significantly less performance.

For a truly strict reading of this rule (F.21), the exception isn't really an exception because it relies on in-out parameters,
rather than the plain out parameters mentioned in the rule.
However, we prefer to be explicit, rather than subtle.

##### Note

In most cases, it is useful to return a specific, user-defined type.
For example:

    struct Distance {
        int value;
        int unit = 1;   // 1 means meters
    };

    Distance d1 = measure(obj1);        // access d1.value and d1.unit
    auto d2 = measure(obj2);            // access d2.value and d2.unit
    auto [value, unit] = measure(obj3); // access value and unit; somewhat redundant
                                        // to people who know measure()
    auto [x, y] = measure(obj4);        // don't; it's likely to be confusing

The overly generic `pair` and `tuple` should be used only when the value returned represents independent entities rather than an abstraction.

Another option is to use `optional<T>` or `expected<T, error_code>`, rather than `pair` or `tuple`.
When used appropriately these types convey more information about what the members mean than `pair<T, bool>` or `pair<T, error_code>` do.

##### Note

When the object to be returned is initialized from local variables that are expensive to copy,
explicit `move` may be helpful to avoid copying:

    pair<LargeObject, LargeObject> f(const string& input)
    {
        LargeObject large1 = g(input);
        LargeObject large2 = h(input);
        // ...
        return { move(large1), move(large2) }; // no copies
    }

Alternatively,

    pair<LargeObject, LargeObject> f(const string& input)
    {
        // ...
        return { g(input), h(input) }; // no copies, no moves
    }

Note this is different from the `return move(...)` anti-pattern from [ES.56](#res-move).

##### Enforcement

* Output parameters should be replaced by return values.
  An output parameter is one that the function writes to, invokes a non-`const` member function, or passes on as a non-`const`.
* `pair` or `tuple` return types should be replaced by `struct`, if possible.
  In variadic templates, `tuple` is often unavoidable.
