# F.23: Use a `not_null` to indicate that "null" is not a valid value

##### Reason

Clarity. A function with a `not_null<T>` parameter makes it clear that the caller of the function is responsible for any `nullptr` checks that might be necessary.
Similarly, a function with a return value of `not_null<T>` makes it clear that the caller of the function does not need to check for `nullptr`.

##### Example

`not_null<T*>` makes it obvious to a reader (human or machine) that a test for `nullptr` is not necessary before dereference.
Additionally, when debugging, `owner<T*>` and `not_null<T>` can be instrumented to check for correctness.

Consider:

    int length(Record* p);

When I call `length(p)` should I check if `p` is `nullptr` first? Should the implementation of `length()` check if `p` is `nullptr`?

    // it is the caller's job to make sure p != nullptr
    int length(not_null<Record*> p);

    // the implementor of length() must assume that p == nullptr is possible
    int length(Record* p);

##### Note

A `not_null<T*>` is assumed not to be the `nullptr`; a `T*` might be the `nullptr`; both can be represented in memory as a `T*` (so no run-time overhead is implied).

##### Note

`not_null` is not just for built-in pointers. It works for `unique_ptr`, `shared_ptr`, and other pointer-like types.

##### Enforcement

* (Simple) Warn if a raw pointer is dereferenced without being tested against `nullptr` (or equivalent) within a function, suggest it is declared `not_null` instead.
* (Simple) Error if a raw pointer is sometimes dereferenced after first being tested against `nullptr` (or equivalent) within the function and sometimes is not.
* (Simple) Warn if a `not_null` pointer is tested against `nullptr` within a function.
