# F.52: Prefer capturing by reference in lambdas that will be used locally, including passed to algorithms

##### Reason

For efficiency and correctness, you nearly always want to capture by reference when using the lambda locally. This includes when writing or calling parallel algorithms that are local because they join before returning.

##### Discussion

The efficiency consideration is that most types are cheaper to pass by reference than by value.

The correctness consideration is that many calls want to perform side effects on the original object at the call site (see example below). Passing by value prevents this.

##### Note

Unfortunately, there is no simple way to capture by reference to `const` to get the efficiency for a local call but also prevent side effects.

##### Example

Here, a large object (a network message) is passed to an iterative algorithm, and it is not efficient or correct to copy the message (which might not be copyable):

    std::for_each(begin(sockets), end(sockets), [&message](auto& socket)
    {
        socket.send(message);
    });

##### Example

This is a simple three-stage parallel pipeline. Each `stage` object encapsulates a worker thread and a queue, has a `process` function to enqueue work, and in its destructor automatically blocks waiting for the queue to empty before ending the thread.

    void send_packets(buffers& bufs)
    {
        stage encryptor([](buffer& b) { encrypt(b); });
        stage compressor([&](buffer& b) { compress(b); encryptor.process(b); });
        stage decorator([&](buffer& b) { decorate(b); compressor.process(b); });
        for (auto& b : bufs) { decorator.process(b); }
    }  // automatically blocks waiting for pipeline to finish

##### Enforcement

Flag a lambda that captures by reference, but is used other than locally within the function scope or passed to a function by reference. (Note: This rule is an approximation, but does flag passing by pointer as those are more likely to be stored by the callee, writing to a heap location accessed via a parameter, returning the lambda, etc. The Lifetime rules will also provide general rules that flag escaping pointers and references including via lambdas.)
