# C.9: Minimize exposure of members

##### Reason

Encapsulation.
Information hiding.
Minimize the chance of unintended access.
This simplifies maintenance.

##### Example

    template<typename T, typename U>
    struct pair {
        T a;
        U b;
        // ...
    };

Whatever we do in the `//`-part, an arbitrary user of a `pair` can arbitrarily and independently change its `a` and `b`.
In a large code base, we cannot easily find which code does what to the members of `pair`.
This might be exactly what we want, but if we want to enforce a relation among members, we need to make them `private`
and enforce that relation (invariant) through constructors and member functions.
For example:

    class Distance {
    public:
        // ...
        double meters() const { return magnitude*unit; }
        void set_unit(double u)
        {
                // ... check that u is a factor of 10 ...
                // ... change magnitude appropriately ...
                unit = u;
        }
        // ...
    private:
        double magnitude;
        double unit;    // 1 is meters, 1000 is kilometers, 0.001 is millimeters, etc.
    };

##### Note

If the set of direct users of a set of variables cannot be easily determined, the type or usage of that set cannot be (easily) changed/improved.
For `public` and `protected` data, that's usually the case.

##### Example

A class can provide two interfaces to its users.
One for derived classes (`protected`) and one for general users (`public`).
For example, a derived class might be allowed to skip a run-time check because it has already guaranteed correctness:

    class Foo {
    public:
        int bar(int x) { check(x); return do_bar(x); }
        // ...
    protected:
        int do_bar(int x); // do some operation on the data
        // ...
    private:
        // ... data ...
    };

    class Dir : public Foo {
        //...
        int mem(int x, int y)
        {
            /* ... do something ... */
            return do_bar(x + y); // OK: derived class can bypass check
        }
    };

    void user(Foo& x)
    {
        int r1 = x.bar(1);      // OK, will check
        int r2 = x.do_bar(2);   // error: would bypass check
        // ...
    }

##### Note

[`protected` data is a bad idea](#rh-protected).

##### Note

Prefer the order `public` members before `protected` members before `private` members; see [NL.16](#rl-order).

##### Enforcement

* [Flag protected data](#rh-protected).
* Flag mixtures of `public` and `private` data
