# C.35: A base class destructor should be either public and virtual, or protected and non-virtual

##### Reason

To prevent undefined behavior.
If the destructor is public, then calling code can attempt to destroy a derived class object through a base class pointer, and the result is undefined if the base class's destructor is non-virtual.
If the destructor is protected, then calling code cannot destroy through a base class pointer and the destructor does not need to be virtual; it does need to be protected, not private, so that derived destructors can invoke it.
In general, the writer of a base class does not know the appropriate action to be done upon destruction.

##### Discussion

See [this in the Discussion section](#sd-dtor).

##### Example, bad

    struct Base {  // BAD: implicitly has a public non-virtual destructor
        virtual void f();
    };

    struct D : Base {
        string s {"a resource needing cleanup"};
        ~D() { /* ... do some cleanup ... */ }
        // ...
    };

    void use()
    {
        unique_ptr<Base> p = make_unique<D>();
        // ...
    } // p's destruction calls ~Base(), not ~D(), which leaks D::s and possibly more

##### Note

A virtual function defines an interface to derived classes that can be used without looking at the derived classes.
If the interface allows destroying, it should be safe to do so.

##### Note

A destructor must be non-private or it will prevent using the type:

    class X {
        ~X();   // private destructor
        // ...
    };

    void use()
    {
        X a;                        // error: cannot destroy
        auto p = make_unique<X>();  // error: cannot destroy
    }

##### Exception

We can imagine one case where you could want a protected virtual destructor: When an object of a derived type (and only of such a type) should be allowed to destroy *another* object (not itself) through a pointer to base. We haven't seen such a case in practice, though.


##### Enforcement

* A class with any virtual functions should have a destructor that is either public and virtual or else protected and non-virtual.
* If a class inherits publicly from a base class, the base class should have a destructor that is either public and virtual or else protected and non-virtual.
