# C.60: Make copy assignment non-`virtual`, take the parameter by `const&`, and return by non-`const&`

##### Reason

It is simple and efficient. If you want to optimize for rvalues, provide an overload that takes an `&&` (see [F.18](#rf-consume)).

##### Example

    class Foo {
    public:
        Foo& operator=(const Foo& x)
        {
            // GOOD: no need to check for self-assignment (other than performance)
            auto tmp = x;
            swap(tmp); // see C.83
            return *this;
        }
        // ...
    };

    Foo a;
    Foo b;
    Foo f();

    a = b;    // assign lvalue: copy
    a = f();  // assign rvalue: potentially move

##### Note

The `swap` implementation technique offers the [strong guarantee](#Abrahams01).

##### Example

But what if you can get significantly better performance by not making a temporary copy? Consider a simple `Vector` intended for a domain where assignment of large, equal-sized `Vector`s is common. In this case, the copy of elements implied by the `swap` implementation technique could cause an order of magnitude increase in cost:

    template<typename T>
    class Vector {
    public:
        Vector& operator=(const Vector&);
        // ...
    private:
        T* elem;
        int sz;
    };

    Vector& Vector::operator=(const Vector& a)
    {
        if (a.sz > sz) {
            // ... use the swap technique, it can't be bettered ...
            return *this;
        }
        // ... copy sz elements from *a.elem to elem ...
        if (a.sz < sz) {
            // ... destroy the surplus elements in *this and adjust size ...
        }
        return *this;
    }

By writing directly to the target elements, we will get only [the basic guarantee](#Abrahams01) rather than the strong guarantee offered by the `swap` technique. Beware of [self-assignment](#rc-copy-self).

**Alternatives**: If you think you need a `virtual` assignment operator, and understand why that's deeply problematic, don't call it `operator=`. Make it a named function like `virtual void assign(const Foo&)`.
See [copy constructor vs. `clone()`](#rc-copy-virtual).

##### Enforcement

* (Simple) An assignment operator should not be virtual. Here be dragons!
* (Simple) An assignment operator should return `T&` to enable chaining, not alternatives like `const T&` which interfere with composability and putting objects in containers.
* (Moderate) An assignment operator should (implicitly or explicitly) invoke all base and member assignment operators.
  Look at the destructor to determine if the type has pointer semantics or value semantics.
