# C.65: Make move assignment safe for self-assignment

##### Reason

If `x = x` changes the value of `x`, people will be surprised and bad errors can occur. However, people don't usually directly write a self-assignment that turns into a move, but it can occur. However, `std::swap` is implemented using move operations so if you accidentally do `swap(a, b)` where `a` and `b` refer to the same object, failing to handle self-move could be a serious and subtle error.

##### Example

    class Foo {
        string s;
        int i;
    public:
        Foo& operator=(Foo&& a) noexcept;
        // ...
    };

    Foo& Foo::operator=(Foo&& a) noexcept  // OK, but there is a cost
    {
        if (this == &a) return *this;  // this line is redundant
        s = std::move(a.s);
        i = a.i;
        return *this;
    }

The one-in-a-million argument against `if (this == &a) return *this;` tests from the discussion of [self-assignment](#rc-copy-self) is even more relevant for self-move.

##### Note

There is no known general way of avoiding an `if (this == &a) return *this;` test for a move assignment and still getting a correct answer (i.e., after `x = x` the value of `x` is unchanged).

##### Note

The ISO standard guarantees only a "valid but unspecified" state for the standard-library containers. Apparently this has not been a problem in about 10 years of experimental and production use. Please contact the editors if you find a counter example. The rule here is more caution and insists on complete safety.

##### Example

Here is a way to move a pointer without a test (imagine it as code in the implementation a move assignment):

    // move from other.ptr to this->ptr
    T* temp = other.ptr;
    other.ptr = nullptr;
    delete ptr; // in self-move, this->ptr is also null; delete is a no-op
    ptr = temp; // in self-move, the original ptr is restored

##### Enforcement

* (Moderate) In the case of self-assignment, a move assignment operator should not leave the object holding pointer members that have been `delete`d or set to `nullptr`.
* (Not enforceable) Look at the use of standard-library container types (incl. `string`) and consider them safe for ordinary (not life-critical) uses.
