# C.67: A polymorphic class should suppress public copy/move

##### Reason

A *polymorphic class* is a class that defines or inherits at least one virtual function. It is likely that it will be used as a base class for other derived classes with polymorphic behavior. If it is accidentally passed by value, with the implicitly generated copy constructor and assignment, we risk slicing: only the base portion of a derived object will be copied, and the polymorphic behavior will be corrupted.

If the class has no data, `=delete` the copy/move functions. Otherwise, make them protected.

##### Example, bad

    class B { // BAD: polymorphic base class doesn't suppress copying
    public:
        virtual char m() { return 'B'; }
        // ... nothing about copy operations, so uses default ...
    };

    class D : public B {
    public:
        char m() override { return 'D'; }
        // ...
    };

    void f(B& b)
    {
        auto b2 = b; // oops, slices the object; b2.m() will return 'B'
    }

    D d;
    f(d);

##### Example

    class B { // GOOD: polymorphic class suppresses copying
    public:
        B() = default;
        B(const B&) = delete;
        B& operator=(const B&) = delete;
        virtual char m() { return 'B'; }
        // ...
    };

    class D : public B {
    public:
        char m() override { return 'D'; }
        // ...
    };

    void f(B& b)
    {
        auto b2 = b; // ok, compiler will detect inadvertent copying, and protest
    }

    D d;
    f(d);

##### Note

If you need to create deep copies of polymorphic objects, use `clone()` functions: see [C.130](#rh-copy).

##### Exception

Classes that represent exception objects need both to be polymorphic and copy-constructible.

##### Enforcement

* Flag a polymorphic class with a public copy operation.
* Flag an assignment of polymorphic class objects.
