# C.129: When designing a class hierarchy, distinguish between implementation inheritance and interface inheritance

##### Reason

Implementation details in an interface make the interface brittle;
that is, make its users vulnerable to having to recompile after changes in the implementation.
Data in a base class increases the complexity of implementing the base and can lead to replication of code.

##### Note

Definition:

* interface inheritance is the use of inheritance to separate users from implementations,
in particular to allow derived classes to be added and changed without affecting the users of base classes.
* implementation inheritance is the use of inheritance to simplify implementation of new facilities
by making useful operations available for implementers of related new operations (sometimes called "programming by difference").

A pure interface class is simply a set of pure virtual functions; see [I.25](#ri-abstract).

In early OOP (e.g., in the 1980s and 1990s), implementation inheritance and interface inheritance were often mixed
and bad habits die hard.
Even now, mixtures are not uncommon in old code bases and in old-style teaching material.

The importance of keeping the two kinds of inheritance increases

* with the size of a hierarchy (e.g., dozens of derived classes),
* with the length of time the hierarchy is used (e.g., decades), and
* with the number of distinct organizations in which a hierarchy is used
(e.g., it can be difficult to distribute an update to a base class)


##### Example, bad

    class Shape {   // BAD, mixed interface and implementation
    public:
        Shape();
        Shape(Point ce = {0, 0}, Color co = none): cent{ce}, col {co} { /* ... */}

        Point center() const { return cent; }
        Color color() const { return col; }

        virtual void rotate(int) = 0;
        virtual void move(Point p) { cent = p; redraw(); }

        virtual void redraw();

        // ...
    private:
        Point cent;
        Color col;
    };

    class Circle : public Shape {
    public:
        Circle(Point c, int r) : Shape{c}, rad{r} { /* ... */ }

        // ...
    private:
        int rad;
    };

    class Triangle : public Shape {
    public:
        Triangle(Point p1, Point p2, Point p3); // calculate center
        // ...
    };

Problems:

* As the hierarchy grows and more data is added to `Shape`, the constructors get harder to write and maintain.
* Why calculate the center for the `Triangle`? We might never use it.
* Add a data member to `Shape` (e.g., drawing style or canvas)
and all classes derived from `Shape` and all code using `Shape` will need to be reviewed, possibly changed, and probably recompiled.

The implementation of `Shape::move()` is an example of implementation inheritance:
we have defined `move()` once and for all, for all derived classes.
The more code there is in such base class member function implementations and the more data is shared by placing it in the base,
the more benefits we gain - and the less stable the hierarchy is.

##### Example

This Shape hierarchy can be rewritten using interface inheritance:

    class Shape {  // pure interface
    public:
        virtual Point center() const = 0;
        virtual Color color() const = 0;

        virtual void rotate(int) = 0;
        virtual void move(Point p) = 0;

        virtual void redraw() = 0;

        // ...
    };

Note that a pure interface rarely has constructors: there is nothing to construct.

    class Circle : public Shape {
    public:
        Circle(Point c, int r, Color c) : cent{c}, rad{r}, col{c} { /* ... */ }

        Point center() const override { return cent; }
        Color color() const override { return col; }

        // ...
    private:
        Point cent;
        int rad;
        Color col;
    };

The interface is now less brittle, but there is more work in implementing the member functions.
For example, `center` has to be implemented by every class derived from `Shape`.

##### Example, dual hierarchy

How can we gain the benefit of stable hierarchies from interface hierarchies and the benefit of implementation reuse from implementation inheritance?
One popular technique is dual hierarchies.
There are many ways of implementing the idea of dual hierarchies; here, we use a multiple-inheritance variant.

First we devise a hierarchy of interface classes:

    class Shape {   // pure interface
    public:
        virtual Point center() const = 0;
        virtual Color color() const = 0;

        virtual void rotate(int) = 0;
        virtual void move(Point p) = 0;

        virtual void redraw() = 0;

        // ...
    };

    class Circle : public virtual Shape {   // pure interface
    public:
        virtual int radius() = 0;
        // ...
    };

To make this interface useful, we must provide its implementation classes (here, named equivalently, but in the `Impl` namespace):

    class Impl::Shape : public virtual ::Shape { // implementation
    public:
        // constructors, destructor
        // ...
        Point center() const override { /* ... */ }
        Color color() const override { /* ... */ }

        void rotate(int) override { /* ... */ }
        void move(Point p) override { /* ... */ }

        void redraw() override { /* ... */ }

        // ...
    };

Now `Shape` is a poor example of a class with an implementation,
but bear with us because this is just a simple example of a technique aimed at more complex hierarchies.

    class Impl::Circle : public virtual ::Circle, public Impl::Shape {   // implementation
    public:
        // constructors, destructor

        int radius() override { /* ... */ }
        // ...
    };

And we could extend the hierarchies by adding a Smiley class (:-)):

    class Smiley : public virtual Circle { // pure interface
    public:
        // ...
    };

    class Impl::Smiley : public virtual ::Smiley, public Impl::Circle {   // implementation
    public:
        // constructors, destructor
        // ...
    }

There are now two hierarchies:

* interface: Smiley -> Circle -> Shape
* implementation: Impl::Smiley -> Impl::Circle -> Impl::Shape

Since each implementation is derived from its interface as well as its implementation base class we get a lattice (DAG):

    Smiley     ->         Circle     ->  Shape
      ^                     ^               ^
      |                     |               |
    Impl::Smiley -> Impl::Circle -> Impl::Shape

As mentioned, this is just one way to construct a dual hierarchy.

The implementation hierarchy can be used directly, rather than through the abstract interface.

    void work_with_shape(Shape&);

    int user()
    {
        Impl::Smiley my_smiley{ /* args */ };   // create concrete shape
        // ...
        my_smiley.some_member();        // use implementation class directly
        // ...
        work_with_shape(my_smiley);     // use implementation through abstract interface
        // ...
    }

This can be useful when the implementation class has members that are not offered in the abstract interface
or if direct use of a member offers optimization opportunities (e.g., if an implementation member function is `final`).

##### Note

Another (related) technique for separating interface and implementation is [Pimpl](#ri-pimpl).

##### Note

There is often a choice between offering common functionality as (implemented) base class functions and freestanding functions
(in an implementation namespace).
Base classes give a shorter notation and easier access to shared data (in the base)
at the cost of the functionality being available only to users of the hierarchy.

##### Enforcement

* Flag a derived to base conversion to a base with both data and virtual functions
(except for calls from a derived class member to a base class member)
* ???
