# C.183: Don't use a `union` for type punning

##### Reason

It is undefined behavior to read a `union` member with a different type from the one with which it was written.
Such punning is invisible, or at least harder to spot than using a named cast.
Type punning using a `union` is a source of errors.

##### Example, bad

    union Pun {
        int x;
        unsigned char c[sizeof(int)];
    };

The idea of `Pun` is to be able to look at the character representation of an `int`.

    void bad(Pun& u)
    {
        u.x = 'x';
        cout << u.c[0] << '\n';     // undefined behavior
    }

If you wanted to see the bytes of an `int`, use a (named) cast:

    void if_you_must_pun(int& x)
    {
        auto p = reinterpret_cast<std::byte*>(&x);
        cout << to_integer<unsigned>(p[0]) << '\n'; // OK; better
        // ...
    }

Accessing the result of a `reinterpret_cast` from the object's declared type to `char*`, `unsigned char*`, or `std::byte*` is defined behavior. (Using `reinterpret_cast` is discouraged,
but at least we can see that something tricky is going on.)

##### Note

Unfortunately, `union`s are commonly used for type punning.
We don't consider "sometimes, it works as expected" a conclusive argument.

Modern C++ introduced `std::byte` (C++17) and `std::bit_cast` (C++20) to facilitate operations on raw object representations.
Use `reinterpret_cast` along with `std::byte` instead of `unsigned char` or `char` for these operations.


##### Enforcement

???



# <a name="s-enum"></a>Enum: Enumerations

Enumerations are used to define sets of integer values and for defining types for such sets of values.
There are two kinds of enumerations, "plain" `enum`s and `class enum`s.

Enumeration rule summary:

* [Enum.1: Prefer enumerations over macros](#renum-macro)
* [Enum.2: Use enumerations to represent sets of related named constants](#renum-set)
* [Enum.3: Prefer `enum class`es over "plain" `enum`s](#renum-class)
* [Enum.4: Define operations on enumerations for safe and simple use](#renum-oper)
* [Enum.5: Don't use `ALL_CAPS` for enumerators](#renum-caps)
* [Enum.6: Avoid unnamed enumerations](#renum-unnamed)
* [Enum.7: Specify the underlying type of an enumeration only when necessary](#renum-underlying)
* [Enum.8: Specify enumerator values only when necessary](#renum-value)
