# ES.12: Do not reuse names in nested scopes

##### Reason

It is easy to get confused about which variable is used.
Can cause maintenance problems.

##### Example, bad

    int d = 0;
    // ...
    if (cond) {
        // ...
        d = 9;
        // ...
    }
    else {
        // ...
        int d = 7;
        // ...
        d = value_to_be_returned;
        // ...
    }

    return d;

If this is a large `if`-statement, it is easy to overlook that a new `d` has been introduced in the inner scope.
This is a known source of bugs.
Sometimes such reuse of a name in an inner scope is called "shadowing".

##### Note

Shadowing is primarily a problem when functions are too large and too complex.

##### Example

Shadowing of function arguments in the outermost block is disallowed by the language:

    void f(int x)
    {
        int x = 4;  // error: reuse of function argument name

        if (x) {
            int x = 7;  // allowed, but bad
            // ...
        }
    }

##### Example, bad

Reuse of a member name as a local variable can also be a problem:

    struct S {
        int m;
        void f(int x);
    };

    void S::f(int x)
    {
        m = 7;    // assign to member
        if (x) {
            int m = 9;
            // ...
            m = 99; // assign to local variable
            // ...
        }
    }

##### Exception

We often reuse function names from a base class in a derived class:

    struct B {
        void f(int);
    };

    struct D : B {
        void f(double);
        using B::f;
    };

This is error-prone.
For example, had we forgotten the using declaration, a call `d.f(1)` would not have found the `int` version of `f`.

??? Do we need a specific rule about shadowing/hiding in class hierarchies?

##### Enforcement

* Flag reuse of a name in nested local scopes
* Flag reuse of a member name as a local variable in a member function
* Flag reuse of a global name as a local variable or a member name
* Flag reuse of a base class member name in a derived class (except for function names)
