# ES.20: Always initialize an object

##### Reason

Avoid used-before-set errors and their associated undefined behavior.
Avoid problems with comprehension of complex initialization.
Simplify refactoring.

##### Example

    void use(int arg)
    {
        int i;   // bad: uninitialized variable
        // ...
        i = 7;   // initialize i
    }

No, `i = 7` does not initialize `i`; it assigns to it. Also, `i` can be read in the `...` part. Better:

    void use(int arg)   // OK
    {
        int i = 7;   // OK: initialized
        string s;    // OK: default initialized
        // ...
    }

##### Note

The *always initialize* rule is deliberately stronger than the *an object must be set before used* language rule.
The latter, more relaxed rule, catches the technical bugs, but:

* It leads to less readable code
* It encourages people to declare names in greater than necessary scopes
* It leads to harder to read code
* It leads to logic bugs by encouraging complex code
* It hampers refactoring

The *always initialize* rule is a style rule aimed to improve maintainability as well as a rule protecting against used-before-set errors.

##### Example

Here is an example that is often considered to demonstrate the need for a more relaxed rule for initialization

    widget i;    // "widget" a type that's expensive to initialize, possibly a large trivial type
    widget j;

    if (cond) {  // bad: i and j are initialized "late"
        i = f1();
        j = f2();
    }
    else {
        i = f3();
        j = f4();
    }

This cannot trivially be rewritten to initialize `i` and `j` with initializers.
Note that for types with a default constructor, attempting to postpone initialization simply leads to a default initialization followed by an assignment.
A popular reason for such examples is "efficiency", but a compiler that can detect whether we made a used-before-set error can also eliminate any redundant double initialization.

Assuming that there is a logical connection between `i` and `j`, that connection should probably be expressed in code:

    pair<widget, widget> make_related_widgets(bool x)
    {
        return (x) ? {f1(), f2()} : {f3(), f4()};
    }

    auto [i, j] = make_related_widgets(cond);    // C++17

If the `make_related_widgets` function is otherwise redundant,
we can eliminate it by using a lambda [ES.28](#res-lambda-init):

    auto [i, j] = [x] { return (x) ? pair{f1(), f2()} : pair{f3(), f4()} }();    // C++17

Using a value representing "uninitialized" is a symptom of a problem and not a solution:

    widget i = uninit;  // bad
    widget j = uninit;

    // ...
    use(i);         // possibly used before set
    // ...

    if (cond) {     // bad: i and j are initialized "late"
        i = f1();
        j = f2();
    }
    else {
        i = f3();
        j = f4();
    }

Now the compiler cannot even simply detect a used-before-set. Further, we've introduced complexity in the state space for widget: which operations are valid on an `uninit` widget and which are not?

##### Note

Complex initialization has been popular with clever programmers for decades.
It has also been a major source of errors and complexity.
Many such errors are introduced during maintenance years after the initial implementation.

##### Example

This rule covers data members.

    class X {
    public:
        X(int i, int ci) : m2{i}, cm2{ci} {}
        // ...

    private:
        int m1 = 7;
        int m2;
        int m3;

        const int cm1 = 7;
        const int cm2;
        const int cm3;
    };

The compiler will flag the uninitialized `cm3` because it is a `const`, but it will not catch the lack of initialization of `m3`.
Usually, a rare spurious member initialization is worth the absence of errors from lack of initialization and often an optimizer
can eliminate a redundant initialization (e.g., an initialization that occurs immediately before an assignment).

##### Exception

If you are declaring an object that is just about to be initialized from input, initializing it would cause a double initialization.
However, beware that this might leave uninitialized data beyond the input -- and that has been a fertile source of errors and security breaches:

    constexpr int max = 8 * 1024;
    int buf[max];         // OK, but suspicious: uninitialized
    f.read(buf, max);

The cost of initializing that array could be significant in some situations.
However, such examples do tend to leave uninitialized variables accessible, so they should be treated with suspicion.

    constexpr int max = 8 * 1024;
    int buf[max] = {};   // zero all elements; better in some situations
    f.read(buf, max);

Because of the restrictive initialization rules for arrays and `std::array`, they offer the most compelling examples of the need for this exception.

When feasible use a library function that is known not to overflow. For example:

    string s;   // s is default initialized to ""
    cin >> s;   // s expands to hold the string

Don't consider simple variables that are targets for input operations exceptions to this rule:

    int i;   // bad
    // ...
    cin >> i;

In the not uncommon case where the input target and the input operation get separated (as they should not) the possibility of used-before-set opens up.

    int i2 = 0;   // better, assuming that zero is an acceptable value for i2
    // ...
    cin >> i2;

A good optimizer should know about input operations and eliminate the redundant operation.


##### Note

Sometimes, a lambda can be used as an initializer to avoid an uninitialized variable:

    error_code ec;
    Value v = [&] {
        auto p = get_value();   // get_value() returns a pair<error_code, Value>
        ec = p.first;
        return p.second;
    }();

or maybe:

    Value v = [] {
        auto p = get_value();   // get_value() returns a pair<error_code, Value>
        if (p.first) throw Bad_value{p.first};
        return p.second;
    }();

**See also**: [ES.28](#res-lambda-init)

##### Enforcement

* Flag every uninitialized variable.
  Don't flag variables of user-defined types with default constructors.
* Check that an uninitialized buffer is written into *immediately* after declaration.
  Passing an uninitialized variable as a reference to non-`const` argument can be assumed to be a write into the variable.
