# ES.40: Avoid complicated expressions

##### Reason

Complicated expressions are error-prone.

##### Example

    // bad: assignment hidden in subexpression
    while ((c = getc()) != -1)

    // bad: two non-local variables assigned in sub-expressions
    while ((cin >> c1, cin >> c2), c1 == c2)

    // better, but possibly still too complicated
    for (char c1, c2; cin >> c1 >> c2 && c1 == c2;)

    // OK: if i and j are not aliased
    int x = ++i + ++j;

    // OK: if i != j and i != k
    v[i] = v[j] + v[k];

    // bad: multiple assignments "hidden" in subexpressions
    x = a + (b = f()) + (c = g()) * 7;

    // bad: relies on commonly misunderstood precedence rules
    x = a & b + c * d && e ^ f == 7;

    // bad: undefined behavior
    x = x++ + x++ + ++x;

Some of these expressions are unconditionally bad (e.g., they rely on undefined behavior). Others are simply so complicated and/or unusual that even good programmers could misunderstand them or overlook a problem when in a hurry.

##### Note

C++17 tightens up the rules for the order of evaluation
(left-to-right except right-to-left in assignments, and the order of evaluation of function arguments is unspecified; [see ES.43](#res-order)),
but that doesn't change the fact that complicated expressions are potentially confusing.

##### Note

A programmer should know and use the basic rules for expressions.

##### Example

    x = k * y + z;             // OK

    auto t1 = k * y;           // bad: unnecessarily verbose
    x = t1 + z;

    if (0 <= x && x < max)   // OK

    auto t1 = 0 <= x;        // bad: unnecessarily verbose
    auto t2 = x < max;
    if (t1 && t2)            // ...

##### Enforcement

Tricky. How complicated must an expression be to be considered complicated? Writing computations as statements with one operation each is also confusing. Things to consider:

* side effects: side effects on multiple non-local variables (for some definition of non-local) can be suspect, especially if the side effects are in separate subexpressions
* writes to aliased variables
* more than N operators (and what should N be?)
* reliance of subtle precedence rules
* uses undefined behavior (can we catch all undefined behavior?)
* implementation defined behavior?
* ???
