# ES.42: Keep use of pointers simple and straightforward

##### Reason

Complicated pointer manipulation is a major source of errors.

##### Note

Use `gsl::span` instead.
Pointers should [only refer to single objects](#ri-array).
Pointer arithmetic is fragile and easy to get wrong, the source of many, many bad bugs and security violations.
`span` is a bounds-checked, safe type for accessing arrays of data.
Access into an array with known bounds using a constant as a subscript can be validated by the compiler.

##### Example, bad

    void f(int* p, int count)
    {
        if (count < 2) return;

        int* q = p + 1;    // BAD

        ptrdiff_t d;
        int n;
        d = (p - &n);      // OK
        d = (q - p);       // OK

        int n = *p++;      // BAD

        if (count < 6) return;

        p[4] = 1;          // BAD

        p[count - 1] = 2;  // BAD

        use(&p[0], 3);     // BAD
    }

##### Example, good

    void f(span<int> a) // BETTER: use span in the function declaration
    {
        if (a.size() < 2) return;

        int n = a[0];      // OK

        span<int> q = a.subspan(1); // OK

        if (a.size() < 6) return;

        a[4] = 1;          // OK

        a[a.size() - 1] = 2;  // OK

        use(a.data(), 3);  // OK
    }

##### Note

Subscripting with a variable is difficult for both tools and humans to validate as safe.
`span` is a run-time bounds-checked, safe type for accessing arrays of data.
`at()` is another alternative that ensures single accesses are bounds-checked.
If iterators are needed to access an array, use the iterators from a `span` constructed over the array.

##### Example, bad

    void f(array<int, 10> a, int pos)
    {
        a[pos / 2] = 1; // BAD
        a[pos - 1] = 2; // BAD
        a[-1] = 3;    // BAD (but easily caught by tools) -- no replacement, just don't do this
        a[10] = 4;    // BAD (but easily caught by tools) -- no replacement, just don't do this
    }

##### Example, good

Use a `span`:

    void f1(span<int, 10> a, int pos) // A1: Change parameter type to use span
    {
        a[pos / 2] = 1; // OK
        a[pos - 1] = 2; // OK
    }

    void f2(array<int, 10> arr, int pos) // A2: Add local span and use that
    {
        span<int> a = {arr.data(), pos};
        a[pos / 2] = 1; // OK
        a[pos - 1] = 2; // OK
    }

Use `at()`:

    void f3(array<int, 10> a, int pos) // ALTERNATIVE B: Use at() for access
    {
        at(a, pos / 2) = 1; // OK
        at(a, pos - 1) = 2; // OK
    }

##### Example, bad

    void f()
    {
        int arr[COUNT];
        for (int i = 0; i < COUNT; ++i)
            arr[i] = i; // BAD, cannot use non-constant indexer
    }

##### Example, good

Use a `span`:

    void f1()
    {
        int arr[COUNT];
        span<int> av = arr;
        for (int i = 0; i < COUNT; ++i)
            av[i] = i;
    }

Use a `span` and range-`for`:

    void f1a()
    {
         int arr[COUNT];
         span<int, COUNT> av = arr;
         int i = 0;
         for (auto& e : av)
             e = i++;
    }

Use `at()` for access:

    void f2()
    {
        int arr[COUNT];
        for (int i = 0; i < COUNT; ++i)
            at(arr, i) = i;
    }

Use a range-`for`:

    void f3()
    {
        int arr[COUNT];
        int i = 0;
        for (auto& e : arr)
             e = i++;
    }

##### Note

Tooling can offer rewrites of array accesses that involve dynamic index expressions to use `at()` instead:

    static int a[10];

    void f(int i, int j)
    {
        a[i + j] = 12;      // BAD, could be rewritten as ...
        at(a, i + j) = 12;  // OK -- bounds-checked
    }

##### Example

Turning an array into a pointer (as the language does essentially always) removes opportunities for checking, so avoid it

    void g(int* p);

    void f()
    {
        int a[5];
        g(a);        // BAD: are we trying to pass an array?
        g(&a[0]);    // OK: passing one object
    }

If you want to pass an array, say so:

    void g(int* p, size_t length);  // old (dangerous) code

    void g1(span<int> av); // BETTER: get g() changed.

    void f2()
    {
        int a[5];
        span<int> av = a;

        g(av.data(), av.size());   // OK, if you have no choice
        g1(a);                     // OK -- no decay here, instead use implicit span ctor
    }

##### Enforcement

* Flag any arithmetic operation on an expression of pointer type that results in a value of pointer type.
* Flag any indexing expression on an expression or variable of array type (either static array or `std::array`) where the indexer is not a compile-time constant expression with a value between `0` and the upper bound of the array.
* Flag any expression that would rely on implicit conversion of an array type to a pointer type.

This rule is part of the [bounds-safety profile](#ss-bounds).
