# CP.26: Don't `detach()` a thread

##### Reason

Often, the need to outlive the scope of its creation is inherent in the `thread`s task,
but implementing that idea by `detach` makes it harder to monitor and communicate with the detached thread.
In particular, it is harder (though not impossible) to ensure that the thread completed as expected or lives for as long as expected.

##### Example

    void heartbeat();

    void use()
    {
        std::thread t(heartbeat);             // don't join; heartbeat is meant to run forever
        t.detach();
        // ...
    }

This is a reasonable use of a thread, for which `detach()` is commonly used.
There are problems, though.
How do we monitor the detached thread to see if it is alive?
Something might go wrong with the heartbeat, and losing a heartbeat can be very serious in a system for which it is needed.
So, we need to communicate with the heartbeat thread
(e.g., through a stream of messages or notification events using a `condition_variable`).

An alternative, and usually superior solution is to control its lifetime by placing it in a scope outside its point of creation (or activation).
For example:

    void heartbeat();

    gsl::joining_thread t(heartbeat);             // heartbeat is meant to run "forever"

This heartbeat will (barring error, hardware problems, etc.) run for as long as the program does.

Sometimes, we need to separate the point of creation from the point of ownership:

    void heartbeat();

    unique_ptr<gsl::joining_thread> tick_tock {nullptr};

    void use()
    {
        // heartbeat is meant to run as long as tick_tock lives
        tick_tock = make_unique<gsl::joining_thread>(heartbeat);
        // ...
    }

#### Enforcement

Flag `detach()`.
