# CP.53: Parameters to coroutines should not be passed by reference

##### Reason

Once a coroutine reaches the first suspension point, such as a co_await, the synchronous portion returns. After that point any parameters passed by reference are dangling. Any usage beyond that is undefined behavior which may include writing to freed memory.

##### Example, Bad

    std::future<int> Class::do_something(const std::shared_ptr<int>& input)
    {
        co_await something();

        // DANGER: the reference to input may no longer be valid and may be freed memory
        co_return *input + 1;
    }

##### Example, Good

    std::future<int> Class::do_something(std::shared_ptr<int> input)
    {
        co_await something();
        co_return *input + 1; // input is a copy that is still valid here
    }

##### Note

This problem does not apply to reference parameters that are only accessed before the first suspension point. Subsequent changes to the function may add or move suspension points which would reintroduce this class of bug. Some types of coroutines have the suspension point before the first line of code in the coroutine executes, in which case reference parameters are always unsafe.  It is safer to always pass by value because the copied parameter will live in the coroutine frame that is safe to access throughout the coroutine.

##### Note

The same danger applies to output parameters.  [F.20: For "out" output values, prefer return values to output parameters](#rf-out) discourages output parameters.  Coroutines should avoid them entirely.

##### Enforcement

Flag all reference parameters to a coroutine.
