# CP.200: Use `volatile` only to talk to non-C++ memory

##### Reason

`volatile` is used to refer to objects that are shared with "non-C++" code or hardware that does not follow the C++ memory model.

##### Example

    const volatile long clock;

This describes a register constantly updated by a clock circuit.
`clock` is `volatile` because its value will change without any action from the C++ program that uses it.
For example, reading `clock` twice will often yield two different values, so the optimizer had better not optimize away the second read in this code:

    long t1 = clock;
    // ... no use of clock here ...
    long t2 = clock;

`clock` is `const` because the program should not try to write to `clock`.

##### Note

Unless you are writing the lowest level code manipulating hardware directly, consider `volatile` an esoteric feature that is best avoided.

##### Example

Usually C++ code receives `volatile` memory that is owned elsewhere (hardware or another language):

    int volatile* vi = get_hardware_memory_location();
        // note: we get a pointer to someone else's memory here
        // volatile says "treat this with extra respect"

Sometimes C++ code allocates the `volatile` memory and shares it with "elsewhere" (hardware or another language) by deliberately escaping a pointer:

    static volatile long vl;
    please_use_this(&vl);   // escape a reference to this to "elsewhere" (not C++)

##### Example, bad

`volatile` local variables are nearly always wrong -- how can they be shared with other languages or hardware if they're ephemeral?
The same applies almost as strongly to data members, for the same reason.

    void f()
    {
        volatile int i = 0; // bad, volatile local variable
        // etc.
    }

    class My_type {
        volatile int i = 0; // suspicious, volatile data member
        // etc.
    };

##### Note

In C++, unlike in some other languages, `volatile` has [nothing to do with synchronization](#rconc-volatile).

##### Enforcement

* Flag `volatile T` local and data members; almost certainly you intended to use `atomic<T>` instead.
* ???
