# E.16: Destructors, deallocation, `swap`, and exception type copy/move construction must never fail

##### Reason

We don't know how to write reliable programs if a destructor, a swap, a memory deallocation, or attempting to copy/move-construct an exception object fails; that is, if it exits by an exception or simply doesn't perform its required action.

##### Example, don't

    class Connection {
        // ...
    public:
        ~Connection()   // Don't: very bad destructor
        {
            if (cannot_disconnect()) throw I_give_up{information};
            // ...
        }
    };

##### Note

Many have tried to write reliable code violating this rule for examples, such as a network connection that "refuses to close".
To the best of our knowledge nobody has found a general way of doing this.
Occasionally, for very specific examples, you can get away with setting some state for future cleanup.
For example, we might put a socket that does not want to close on a "bad socket" list,
to be examined by a regular sweep of the system state.
Every example we have seen of this is error-prone, specialized, and often buggy.

##### Note

The standard library assumes that destructors, deallocation functions (e.g., `operator delete`), and `swap` do not throw. If they do, basic standard-library invariants are broken.

##### Note

* Deallocation functions, including `operator delete`, must be `noexcept`.
* `swap` functions must be `noexcept`.
* Most destructors are implicitly `noexcept` by default.
* Also, [make move operations `noexcept`](#rc-move-noexcept).
* If writing a type intended to be used as an exception type, ensure its copy constructor is `noexcept`. In general we cannot mechanically enforce this, because we do not know whether a type is intended to be used as an exception type.
* Try not to `throw` a type whose copy constructor is not `noexcept`. In general we cannot mechanically enforce this, because even `throw std::string(...)` could throw but does not in practice.

##### Enforcement

* Catch destructors, deallocation operations, and `swap`s that `throw`.
* Catch such operations that are not `noexcept`.

**See also**: [discussion](#sd-never-fail)
