# T.47: Avoid highly visible unconstrained templates with common names

##### Reason

 An unconstrained template argument is a perfect match for anything so such a template can be preferred over more specific types that require minor conversions.
 This is particularly annoying/dangerous when ADL is used.
 Common names make this problem more likely.

##### Example

    namespace Bad {
        struct S { int m; };
        template<typename T1, typename T2>
        bool operator==(T1, T2) { cout << "Bad\n"; return true; }
    }

    namespace T0 {
        bool operator==(int, Bad::S) { cout << "T0\n"; return true; }  // compare to int

        void test()
        {
            Bad::S bad{ 1 };
            vector<int> v(10);
            bool b = 1 == bad;
            bool b2 = v.size() == bad;
        }
    }

This prints `T0` and `Bad`.

Now the `==` in `Bad` was designed to cause trouble, but would you have spotted the problem in real code?
The problem is that `v.size()` returns an `unsigned` integer so that a conversion is needed to call the local `==`;
the `==` in `Bad` requires no conversions.
Realistic types, such as the standard-library iterators can be made to exhibit similar anti-social tendencies.

##### Note

If an unconstrained template is defined in the same namespace as a type,
that unconstrained template can be found by ADL (as happened in the example).
That is, it is highly visible.

##### Note

This rule should not be necessary, but the committee cannot agree to exclude unconstrained templates from ADL.

Unfortunately this will get many false positives; the standard library violates this widely, by putting many unconstrained templates and types into the single namespace `std`.


##### Enforcement

Flag templates defined in a namespace where concrete types are also defined (maybe not feasible until we have concepts).
