# SL.con.3: Avoid bounds errors

##### Reason

Read or write beyond an allocated range of elements typically leads to bad errors, wrong results, crashes, and security violations.

##### Note

The standard-library functions that apply to ranges of elements all have (or could have) bounds-safe overloads that take `span`.
Standard types such as `vector` can be modified to perform bounds-checks under the bounds profile (in a compatible way, such as by adding contracts), or used with `at()`.

Ideally, the in-bounds guarantee should be statically enforced.
For example:

* a range-`for` cannot loop beyond the range of the container to which it is applied
* a `v.begin(),v.end()` is easily determined to be bounds safe

Such loops are as fast as any unchecked/unsafe equivalent.

Often a simple pre-check can eliminate the need for checking of individual indices.
For example

* for `v.begin(),v.begin()+i` the `i` can easily be checked against `v.size()`

Such loops can be much faster than individually checked element accesses.

##### Example, bad

    void f()
    {
        array<int, 10> a, b;
        memset(a.data(), 0, 10);         // BAD, and contains a length error (length = 10 * sizeof(int))
        memcmp(a.data(), b.data(), 10);  // BAD, and contains a length error (length = 10 * sizeof(int))
    }

Also, `std::array<>::fill()` or `std::fill()` or even an empty initializer are better candidates than `memset()`.

##### Example, good

    void f()
    {
        array<int, 10> a, b, c{};       // c is initialized to zero
        a.fill(0);
        fill(b.begin(), b.end(), 0);    // std::fill()
        fill(b, 0);                     // std::ranges::fill()

        if ( a == b ) {
          // ...
        }
    }

##### Example

If code is using an unmodified standard library, then there are still workarounds that enable use of `std::array` and `std::vector` in a bounds-safe manner. Code can call the `.at()` member function on each class, which will result in an `std::out_of_range` exception being thrown. Alternatively, code can call the `at()` free function, which will result in fail-fast (or a customized action) on a bounds violation.

    void f(std::vector<int>& v, std::array<int, 12> a, int i)
    {
        v[0] = a[0];        // BAD
        v.at(0) = a[0];     // OK (alternative 1)
        at(v, 0) = a[0];    // OK (alternative 2)

        v.at(0) = a[i];     // BAD
        v.at(0) = a.at(i);  // OK (alternative 1)
        v.at(0) = at(a, i); // OK (alternative 2)
    }

##### Enforcement

* Issue a diagnostic for any call to a standard-library function that is not bounds-checked.
??? insert link to a list of banned functions

This rule is part of the [bounds profile](#ss-bounds).
