# NR.7: Don't make data members `protected`

##### Reason

`protected` data is a source of errors.
`protected` data can be manipulated from an unbounded amount of code in various places.
`protected` data is the class hierarchy equivalent to global data.

##### Example

    ???

##### Alternative

* [Avoid `protected` data](#rh-protected)


# <a name="s-references"></a>RF: References

Many coding standards, rules, and guidelines have been written for C++, and especially for specialized uses of C++.
Many

* focus on lower-level issues, such as the spelling of identifiers
* are written by C++ novices
* see "stopping programmers from doing unusual things" as their primary aim
* aim at portability across many compilers (some 10 years old)
* are written to preserve decades old code bases
* aim at a single application domain
* are downright counterproductive
* are ignored (must be ignored by programmers to get their work done well)

A bad coding standard is worse than no coding standard.
However an appropriate set of guidelines are much better than no standards: "Form is liberating."

Why can't we just have a language that allows all we want and disallows all we don't want ("a perfect language")?
Fundamentally, because affordable languages (and their tool chains) also serve people with needs that differ from yours and serve more needs than you have today.
Also, your needs change over time and a general-purpose language is needed to allow you to adapt.
A language that is ideal for today would be overly restrictive tomorrow.

Coding guidelines adapt the use of a language to specific needs.
Thus, there cannot be a single coding style for everybody.
We expect different organizations to provide additions, typically with more restrictions and firmer style rules.

Reference sections:

* [RF.rules: Coding rules](#ss-rules)
* [RF.books: Books with coding guidelines](#ss-books)
* [RF.C++: C++ Programming (C++11/C++14/C++17)](#ss-cplusplus)
* [RF.web: Websites](#ss-web)
* [RS.video: Videos about "modern C++"](#ss-vid)
* [RF.man: Manuals](#ss-man)
* [RF.core: Core Guidelines materials](#ss-core)
