# GSL.ptr: Smart pointer concepts

* `Pointer`  // A type with `*`, `->`, `==`, and default construction (default construction is assumed to set the singular "null" value)
* `Unique_pointer`  // A type that matches `Pointer`, is movable, and is not copyable
* `Shared_pointer`   // A type that matches `Pointer`, and is copyable

# <a name="s-naming"></a>NL: Naming and layout suggestions

Consistent naming and layout are helpful.
If for no other reason because it minimizes "my style is better than your style" arguments.
However, there are many, many, different styles around and people are passionate about them (pro and con).
Also, most real-world projects include code from many sources, so standardizing on a single style for all code is often impossible.
After many requests for guidance from users, we present a set of rules that you might use if you have no better ideas, but the real aim is consistency, rather than any particular rule set.
IDEs and tools can help (as well as hinder).

Naming and layout rules:

* [NL.1: Don't say in comments what can be clearly stated in code](#rl-comments)
* [NL.2: State intent in comments](#rl-comments-intent)
* [NL.3: Keep comments crisp](#rl-comments-crisp)
* [NL.4: Maintain a consistent indentation style](#rl-indent)
* [NL.5: Avoid encoding type information in names](#rl-name-type)
* [NL.7: Make the length of a name roughly proportional to the length of its scope](#rl-name-length)
* [NL.8: Use a consistent naming style](#rl-name)
* [NL.9: Use `ALL_CAPS` for macro names only](#rl-all-caps)
* [NL.10: Prefer `underscore_style` names](#rl-camel)
* [NL.11: Make literals readable](#rl-literals)
* [NL.15: Use spaces sparingly](#rl-space)
* [NL.16: Use a conventional class member declaration order](#rl-order)
* [NL.17: Use K&R-derived layout](#rl-knr)
* [NL.18: Use C++-style declarator layout](#rl-ptr)
* [NL.19: Avoid names that are easily misread](#rl-misread)
* [NL.20: Don't place two statements on the same line](#rl-stmt)
* [NL.21: Declare one name (only) per declaration](#rl-dcl)
* [NL.25: Don't use `void` as an argument type](#rl-void)
* [NL.26: Use conventional `const` notation](#rl-const)
* [NL.27: Use a `.cpp` suffix for code files and `.h` for interface files](#rl-file-suffix)

Most of these rules are aesthetic and programmers hold strong opinions.
IDEs also tend to have defaults and a range of alternatives.
These rules are suggested defaults to follow unless you have reasons not to.

We have had comments to the effect that naming and layout are so personal and/or arbitrary that we should not try to "legislate" them.
We are not "legislating" (see the previous paragraph).
However, we have had many requests for a set of naming and layout conventions to use when there are no external constraints.

More specific and detailed rules are easier to enforce.

These rules bear a strong resemblance to the recommendations in the [PPP Style Guide](https://www.stroustrup.com/Programming/PPP-style.pdf)
written in support of Stroustrup's [Programming: Principles and Practice using C++](https://www.stroustrup.com/programming.html).
