# NL.16: Use a conventional class member declaration order

##### Reason

A conventional order of members improves readability.

When declaring a class use the following order

* types: classes, enums, and aliases (`using`)
* constructors, assignments, destructor
* functions
* data

Use the `public` before `protected` before `private` order.

This is a recommendation for [when you have no constraints or better ideas](#s-naming).
This rule was added after many requests for guidance.

##### Example

    class X {
    public:
        // interface
    protected:
        // unchecked function for use by derived class implementations
    private:
        // implementation details
    };

##### Example

Sometimes, the default order of members conflicts with a desire to separate the public interface from implementation details.
In such cases, private types and functions can be placed with private data.

    class X {
    public:
        // interface
    protected:
        // unchecked function for use by derived class implementations
    private:
        // implementation details (types, functions, and data)
    };

##### Example, bad

Avoid multiple blocks of declarations of one access (e.g., `public`) dispersed among blocks of declarations with different access (e.g. `private`).

    class X {   // bad
    public:
        void f();
    public:
        int g();
        // ...
    };

The use of macros to declare groups of members often leads to violation of any ordering rules.
However, using macros obscures what is being expressed anyway.

##### Enforcement

Flag departures from the suggested order. There will be a lot of old code that doesn't follow this rule.
