A template is a C++ entity that defines one of the following:

- a family of classes (class template), which may be nested classes

- a family of functions (function template), which may be member functions

- an alias to a family of types (alias template)

(since C++11)

- a family of variables (variable template)

(since C++14)

- a concept (constraints and concepts)

(since C++20)

Templates are parameterized by one or more template parameters, of three kinds: type template parameters, non-type template parameters, and template template parameters.

When template arguments are provided, or, for function and class(since C++17) templates only, deduced, they are substituted for the template parameters to obtain a specialization of the template, that is, a specific type or a specific function lvalue.

Specializations may also be provided explicitly: full specializations are allowed for class, variable(since C++14) and function templates, partial specializations are only allowed for class templates and variable templates(since C++14).

When a class template specialization is referenced in context that requires a complete object type, or when a function template specialization is referenced in context that requires a function definition to exist, the template is instantiated (the code for it is actually compiled), unless the template was already explicitly specialized or explicitly instantiated. Instantiation of a class template does not instantiate any of its member functions unless they are also used. At link time, identical instantiations generated by different translation units are merged.

The definition of a class template must be visible at the point of implicit instantiation, which is why template libraries typically provide all template definitions in the headers (e.g. most boost libraries are header-only).

### Syntax

template <parameter-list ﻿> requires-clause ﻿(optional) declaration

(1)

export template <parameter-list ﻿> declaration

(2)

(until C++11)

template <parameter-list ﻿> concept concept-name = constraint-expression ﻿;

(3)

(since C++20)

parameter-list

-

a non-empty comma-separated list of the template parameters, each of which is either non-type parameter, a type parameter, a template parameter, or a parameter pack of any of those(since C++11).

requires-clause

-

(since C++20) a requires-clause that specifies the constraints on the template arguments.

declaration

-

declaration of a class (including struct and union), a member class or member enumeration type, a function or member function, a static data member at namespace scope, a variable or static data member at class scope(since C++14), or an alias template(since C++11). It may also define a template specialization.

concept-name
constraint-expression

-

see constraints and concepts

export was an optional modifier which declared the template as exported (when used with a class template, it declared all of its members exported as well). Files that instantiated exported templates did not need to include their definitions: the declaration was sufficient. Implementations of export were rare and disagreed with each other on details.

(until C++11)

This section is incomplete
Reason: core syntax, template parameters, and instantiations, take content common between class_template and function_template

### Template identifiers

A template identifier has one of the following syntaxes:

template-name ﻿<template-argument-list ﻿(optional)>

(1)

operatorop ﻿<template-argument-list ﻿(optional)>

(2)

operator "" identifier <template-argument-list ﻿(optional)>

(3)

(since C++11)
(deprecated)

operator user-defined-string-literal <template-argument-list ﻿(optional)>

(4)

(since C++11)

1) A simple template identifier.

2) An operator function template identifier.

3,4) A literal operator function template identifier.

template-name

-

an identifier that names a template

op

-

an overloadable operator

identifier

-

an identifier

user-defined-string-literal

-

"" followed by an identifier

A simple template identifier that names a class template specialization names a class.

A template identifier that names an alias template specialization names a type.

A template identifier that names a function template specialization names a function.

If all following conditions are satisfied, a template identifier is valid ﻿:

- There are at most as many arguments as there are parameters or a parameter is a template parameter pack(since C++11).

- There is an argument for each non-deducible non-pack(since C++11) parameter that does not have a default template argument.

- Each template argument matches the corresponding template parameter.

- Substitution of each template argument into the following template parameters (if any) succeeds.

- If the template identifier is non-dependent, the associated constraints are satisfied as specified below.

(since C++20)

An invalid simple template id is a compile-time error, unless it names a function template specialization (in which case SFINAE may apply).

template<class T, T::type n = 0>
class X;
 
struct S
{
using type = int;
};
 
using T1 = X<S, int, int>; // error: too many arguments
using T2 = X<>; // error: no default argument for first template parameter
using T3 = X<1>; // error: value 1 does not match type-parameter
using T4 = X<int>; // error: substitution failure for second template parameter
using T5 = X<S>; // OK

When the template-name of a simple template id names a constrained non-function template or a constrained template template parameter, but not a member template that is a member of an unknown specialization, and all template arguments in the simple template id are non-dependent, the associated constraints of the constrained template must be satisfied:

template<typename T>
concept C1 = sizeof(T) != sizeof(int);
 
template<C1 T>
struct S1 {};
 
template<C1 T>
using Ptr = T*;
 
S1<int>* p; // error: constraints not satisfied
Ptr<int> p; // error: constraints not satisfied
 
template<typename T>
struct S2 { Ptr<int> x; }; // error, no diagnostic required
 
template<typename T>
struct S3 { Ptr<T> x; }; // OK, satisfaction is not required
 
S3<int> x; // error: constraints not satisfied
 
template<template<C1 T> class X>
struct S4
{
X<int> x; // error, no diagnostic required
};
 
template<typename T>
concept C2 = sizeof(T) == 1;
 
template<C2 T> struct S {};
 
template struct S<char[2]>; // error: constraints not satisfied
template<> struct S<char[2]> {}; // error: constraints not satisfied

(since C++20)

If all following conditions are satisfied, two template identifiers are same ﻿:

- Their template-name ﻿s or operators refer to the same template.

- Their corresponding type template arguments are the same type.

- The template parameter values determined by their corresponding non-type template arguments are template-argument-equivalent.

- Their corresponding template template arguments refer to the same template.

Two template identifier that are the same refer to the same variable,(since C++14) class, or function.

### Templated entity

A templated entity (or, in some sources, "temploid") is any entity that is defined (or, for a lambda expression, created)(since C++11) within a template definition. All of the following are templated entities:

- a class/function/variable(since C++14) template

- a concept

(since C++20)

- a member of a templated entity (such as a non-template member function of a class template)

- an enumerator of an enumeration that is a templated entity

- any entity defined or created within a templated entity: a local class, a local variable, a friend function, etc

- the closure type of a lambda expression that appears in the declaration of a templated entity

(since C++11)

For example, in

template<typename T>
struct A
{
void f() {}
};

the function A::f is not a function template, but is still considered to be templated.

A templated function is a function template or a function that is templated.

A templated class is a class template or a class that is templated.

A templated variable is a variable template or a variable that is templated.

(since C++14)

### Keywords

template,
export

### Defect reports

The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to previously published C++ standards.

DR

Applied to

Behavior as published

Correct behavior

CWG 2293

C++98

the rules of determining whether a template
identifier is valid were not provided

provided

CWG 2682

C++98
C++14

the definitions of templated function/template class
(C++98)/templated variable (C++14) were missing

added

P2308R1

C++98

two template identifiers were different if their
corresponding non-type template arguments
are not template-argument-equivalent

they are different if their corresponding
non-type template parameter values
are not template-argument-equivalent

### See also

C documentation for Generic selection