Defined in header <algorithm>

template< class ForwardIt, class Generator >

void generate( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, Generator g );

(1)
(constexpr since C++20)

template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt, class Generator >

void generate( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,

ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, Generator g );

(2)
(since C++17)

1) Assigns each element in range [first, last) a value generated by the given function object g.

2) Same as (1), but executed according to policy.

This overload participates in overload resolution only if all following conditions are satisfied:

std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.

(until C++20)

std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.

(since C++20)

### Parameters

first, last

-

the range of elements to generate

policy

-

the execution policy to use

g

-

generator function object that will be called. 

The signature of the function should be equivalent to the following:

Ret fun();

The type Ret must be such that an object of type ForwardIt can be dereferenced and assigned a value of type Ret.
​

Type requirements

-

ForwardIt must meet the requirements of LegacyForwardIterator.

### Complexity

Exactly std::distance(first, last) invocations of g() and assignments.

### Exceptions

The overload with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy reports errors as follows:

- If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called. For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.

- If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

### Possible implementation

template<class ForwardIt, class Generator>
constexpr //< since C++20
void generate(ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, Generator g)
{
for (; first != last; ++first)
*first = g();
}

### Example

Run this code

#include <algorithm>
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
 
void println(std::string_view fmt, const auto& v)
{
for (std::cout << fmt; const auto& e : v)
std::cout << e << ' ';
std::cout << '\n';
};

int f()
{
static int i;
return ++i;
}
 
int main()
{
std::vector<int> v(5);
 
std::generate(v.begin(), v.end(), f);
println("v: ", v);
 
// Initialize with default values 0,1,2,3,4 from a lambda function
// Equivalent to std::iota(v.begin(), v.end(), 0);
std::generate(v.begin(), v.end(), [n = 0] () mutable { return n++; });
println("v: ", v);
}

Output:

v: 1 2 3 4 5
v: 0 1 2 3 4

### See also

fill

copy-assigns the given value to every element in a range 
(function template)

generate_n

assigns the results of successive function calls to N elements in a range 
(function template)

iota

(C++11)

fills a range with successive increments of the starting value 
(function template)

ranges::generate

(C++20)

saves the result of a function in a range
(algorithm function object)