Defined in header <algorithm>

template< class OutputIt, class Size, class Generator >

OutputIt generate_n( OutputIt first, Size count, Generator g );

(1)
(constexpr since C++20)

template< class ExecutionPolicy,

          class ForwardIt, class Size, class Generator >

ForwardIt generate_n( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,

ForwardIt first, Size count, Generator g );

(2)
(since C++17)

1) Assigns values, generated by given function object g, to the first count elements in the range beginning at first, if count > 0. Does nothing otherwise.

2) Same as (1), but executed according to policy.

This overload participates in overload resolution only if all following conditions are satisfied:

std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.

(until C++20)

std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.

(since C++20)

If Size is not convertible to an integral type, the program is ill-formed.

### Parameters

first

-

the beginning of the range of elements to generate

count

-

number of the elements to generate

policy

-

the execution policy to use

g

-

generator function object that will be called. 

The signature of the function should be equivalent to the following:

Ret fun();

The type Ret must be such that an object of type OutputIt can be dereferenced and assigned a value of type Ret.
​

Type requirements

-

OutputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyOutputIterator.

-

ForwardIt must meet the requirements of LegacyForwardIterator.

### Return value

Iterator one past the last element assigned if count > 0, first otherwise.

### Complexity

Exactly std::max(0, count) invocations of g() and assignments.

### Exceptions

The overload with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy reports errors as follows:

- If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called. For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.

- If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

### Possible implementation

template<class OutputIt, class Size, class Generator>
constexpr // since C++20
OutputIt generate_n(OutputIt first, Size count, Generator g)
{
for (Size i = 0; i < count; ++i, ++first)
*first = g();
 
return first;
}

### Example

Run this code

#include <algorithm>
#include <functional>
#include <iostream>
#include <iterator>
#include <random>
 
int main()
{
std::mt19937 rng; // default constructed, seeded with fixed seed
std::generate_n(std::ostream_iterator<std::mt19937::result_type>(std::cout, " "),
5, std::ref(rng));
std::cout << '\n';
}

Output:

3499211612 581869302 3890346734 3586334585 545404204

### Defect reports

The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to previously published C++ standards.

DR

Applied to

Behavior as published

Correct behavior

LWG 426

C++98

the complexity requirement was “exactly count invocations
or assignments”, which is broken if count is negative

no invocation or assignment
if count is non-positive

LWG 865

C++98

the location of the first element following
the generation range was not returned

returned

### See also

fill_n

copy-assigns the given value to N elements in a range 
(function template)

generate

assigns the results of successive function calls to every element in a range 
(function template)

ranges::generate_n

(C++20)

saves the result of N applications of a function
(algorithm function object)