# P.6: What cannot be checked at compile time should be checkable at run time

##### Reason

Leaving hard-to-detect errors in a program is asking for crashes and bad results.

##### Note

Ideally, we catch all errors (that are not errors in the programmer's logic) at either compile time or run time. It is impossible to catch all errors at compile time and often not affordable to catch all remaining errors at run time. However, we should endeavor to write programs that in principle can be checked, given sufficient resources (analysis programs, run-time checks, machine resources, time).

##### Example, bad

    // separately compiled, possibly dynamically loaded
    extern void f(int* p);

    void g(int n)
    {
        // bad: the number of elements is not passed to f()
        f(new int[n]);
    }

Here, a crucial bit of information (the number of elements) has been so thoroughly "obscured" that static analysis is probably rendered infeasible and dynamic checking can be very difficult when `f()` is part of an ABI so that we cannot "instrument" that pointer. We could embed helpful information into the free store, but that requires global changes to a system and maybe to the compiler. What we have here is a design that makes error detection very hard.

##### Example, bad

We can of course pass the number of elements along with the pointer:

    // separately compiled, possibly dynamically loaded
    extern void f2(int* p, int n);

    void g2(int n)
    {
        // bad: the wrong number of elements can be passed to f2()
        f2(new int[n], n);
    }

Passing the number of elements as an argument is better (and far more common) than just passing the pointer and relying on some (unstated) convention for knowing or discovering the number of elements. However (as shown), a simple typo can introduce a serious error. The connection between the two arguments of `f2()` is conventional, rather than explicit.

Also, it is implicit that `f2()` is supposed to `delete` its argument (or did the caller make a second mistake?).

##### Example, bad

The standard library resource management pointers fail to pass the size when they point to an object:

    // separately compiled, possibly dynamically loaded
    // NB: this assumes the calling code is ABI-compatible, using a
    // compatible C++ compiler and the same stdlib implementation
    extern void f3(unique_ptr<int[]>, int n);

    void g3(int n)
    {
        f3(make_unique<int[]>(n), m);    // bad: pass ownership and size separately
    }

##### Example

We need to pass the pointer and the number of elements as an integral object:

    extern void f4(vector<int>&);   // separately compiled, possibly dynamically loaded
    extern void f4(span<int>);      // separately compiled, possibly dynamically loaded
                                    // NB: this assumes the calling code is ABI-compatible, using a
                                    // compatible C++ compiler and the same stdlib implementation

    void g3(int n)
    {
        vector<int> v(n);
        f4(v);                     // pass a reference, retain ownership
        f4(span<int>{v});          // pass a view, retain ownership
    }

This design carries the number of elements along as an integral part of an object, so that errors are unlikely and dynamic (run-time) checking is always feasible, if not always affordable.

##### Example

How do we transfer both ownership and all information needed for validating use?

    vector<int> f5(int n)    // OK: move
    {
        vector<int> v(n);
        // ... initialize v ...
        return v;
    }

    unique_ptr<int[]> f6(int n)    // bad: loses n
    {
        auto p = make_unique<int[]>(n);
        // ... initialize *p ...
        return p;
    }

    owner<int*> f7(int n)    // bad: loses n and we might forget to delete
    {
        owner<int*> p = new int[n];
        // ... initialize *p ...
        return p;
    }

##### Example

* ???
* show how possible checks are avoided by interfaces that pass polymorphic base classes around, when they actually know what they need?
  Or strings as "free-style" options

##### Enforcement

* Flag (pointer, count)-style interfaces (this will flag a lot of examples that can't be fixed for compatibility reasons)
* ???
