# F.7: For general use, take `T*` or `T&` arguments rather than smart pointers

##### Reason

Passing a smart pointer transfers or shares ownership and should only be used when ownership semantics are intended.
A function that does not manipulate lifetime should take raw pointers or references instead.

Passing by smart pointer restricts the use of a function to callers that use smart pointers.
A function that needs a `widget` should be able to accept any `widget` object, not just ones whose lifetimes are managed by a particular kind of smart pointer.

Passing a shared smart pointer (e.g., `std::shared_ptr`) implies a run-time cost.

##### Example

    // accepts any int*
    void f(int*);

    // can only accept ints for which you want to transfer ownership
    void g(unique_ptr<int>);

    // can only accept ints for which you are willing to share ownership
    void g(shared_ptr<int>);

    // doesn't change ownership, but requires a particular ownership of the caller
    void h(const unique_ptr<int>&);

    // accepts any int
    void h(int&);

##### Example, bad

    // callee
    void f(shared_ptr<widget>& w)
    {
        // ...
        use(*w); // only use of w -- the lifetime is not used at all
        // ...
    };

    // caller
    shared_ptr<widget> my_widget = /* ... */;
    f(my_widget);

    widget stack_widget;
    f(stack_widget); // error

##### Example, good

    // callee
    void f(widget& w)
    {
        // ...
        use(w);
        // ...
    };

    // caller
    shared_ptr<widget> my_widget = /* ... */;
    f(*my_widget);

    widget stack_widget;
    f(stack_widget); // ok -- now this works

##### Note

We can catch many common cases of dangling pointers statically (see [lifetime safety profile](#ss-lifetime)). Function arguments naturally live for the lifetime of the function call, and so have fewer lifetime problems.

##### Enforcement

* (Simple) Warn if a function takes a parameter of a smart pointer type (that overloads `operator->` or `operator*`) that is copyable but the function only calls any of: `operator*`, `operator->` or `get()`.
  Suggest using a `T*` or `T&` instead.
* Flag a parameter of a smart pointer type (a type that overloads `operator->` or `operator*`) that is copyable/movable but never copied/moved from in the function body, and that is never modified, and that is not passed along to another function that could do so. That means the ownership semantics are not used.
  Suggest using a `T*` or `T&` instead.

**See also**:

* [Prefer `T*` over `T&` when "no argument" is a valid option](#rf-ptr-ref)
* [Smart pointer rule summary](#rr-summary-smartptrs)
