# F.43: Never (directly or indirectly) return a pointer or a reference to a local object

##### Reason

To avoid the crashes and data corruption that can result from the use of such a dangling pointer.

##### Example, bad

After the return from a function its local objects no longer exist:

    int* f()
    {
        int fx = 9;
        return &fx;  // BAD
    }

    void g(int* p)   // looks innocent enough
    {
        int gx;
        cout << "*p == " << *p << '\n';
        *p = 999;
        cout << "gx == " << gx << '\n';
    }

    void h()
    {
        int* p = f();
        int z = *p;  // read from abandoned stack frame (bad)
        g(p);        // pass pointer to abandoned stack frame to function (bad)
    }

Here on one popular implementation I got the output:

    *p == 999
    gx == 999

I expected that because the call of `g()` reuses the stack space abandoned by the call of `f()` so `*p` refers to the space now occupied by `gx`.

* Imagine what would happen if `fx` and `gx` were of different types.
* Imagine what would happen if `fx` or `gx` was a type with an invariant.
* Imagine what would happen if that dangling pointer was passed around among a larger set of functions.
* Imagine what a cracker could do with that dangling pointer.

Fortunately, most (all?) modern compilers catch and warn against this simple case.

##### Note

This applies to references as well:

    int& f()
    {
        int x = 7;
        // ...
        return x;  // Bad: returns reference to object that is about to be destroyed
    }

##### Note

This applies only to non-`static` local variables.
All `static` variables are (as their name indicates) statically allocated, so that pointers to them cannot dangle.

##### Example, bad

Not all examples of leaking a pointer to a local variable are that obvious:

    int* glob;       // global variables are bad in so many ways

    template<class T>
    void steal(T x)
    {
        glob = x();  // BAD
    }

    void f()
    {
        int i = 99;
        steal([&] { return &i; });
    }

    int main()
    {
        f();
        cout << *glob << '\n';
    }

Here I managed to read the location abandoned by the call of `f`.
The pointer stored in `glob` could be used much later and cause trouble in unpredictable ways.

##### Note

The address of a local variable can be "returned"/leaked by a return statement, by a `T&` out-parameter, as a member of a returned object, as an element of a returned array, and more.

##### Note

Similar examples can be constructed "leaking" a pointer from an inner scope to an outer one;
such examples are handled equivalently to leaks of pointers out of a function.

A slightly different variant of the problem is placing pointers in a container that outlives the objects pointed to.

**See also**: Another way of getting dangling pointers is [pointer invalidation](#???).
It can be detected/prevented with similar techniques.

##### Enforcement

* Compilers tend to catch return of reference to locals and could in many cases catch return of pointers to locals.
* Static analysis can catch many common patterns of the use of pointers indicating positions (thus eliminating dangling pointers)
