# F.56: Avoid unnecessary condition nesting

##### Reason

Shallow nesting of conditions makes the code easier to follow. It also makes the intent clearer.
Strive to place the essential code at outermost scope, unless this obscures intent.

##### Example

Use a guard-clause to take care of exceptional cases and return early.

    // Bad: Deep nesting
    void foo() {
        ...
        if (x) {
            computeImportantThings(x);
        }
    }

    // Bad: Still a redundant else.
    void foo() {
        ...
        if (!x) {
            return;
        }
        else {
            computeImportantThings(x);
        }
    }

    // Good: Early return, no redundant else
    void foo() {
        ...
        if (!x)
            return;

        computeImportantThings(x);
    }

##### Example

    // Bad: Unnecessary nesting of conditions
    void foo() {
        ...
        if (x) {
            if (y) {
                computeImportantThings(x);
            }
        }
    }

    // Good: Merge conditions + return early
    void foo() {
        ...
        if (!(x && y))
            return;

        computeImportantThings(x);
    }

##### Enforcement

Flag a redundant `else`.
Flag a function whose body is simply a conditional statement enclosing a block.


# <a name="s-class"></a>C: Classes and class hierarchies

A class is a user-defined type, for which a programmer can define the representation, operations, and interfaces.
Class hierarchies are used to organize related classes into hierarchical structures.

Class rule summary:

* [C.1: Organize related data into structures (`struct`s or `class`es)](#rc-org)
* [C.2: Use `class` if the class has an invariant; use `struct` if the data members can vary independently](#rc-struct)
* [C.3: Represent the distinction between an interface and an implementation using a class](#rc-interface)
* [C.4: Make a function a member only if it needs direct access to the representation of a class](#rc-member)
* [C.5: Place helper functions in the same namespace as the class they support](#rc-helper)
* [C.7: Don't define a class or enum and declare a variable of its type in the same statement](#rc-standalone)
* [C.8: Use `class` rather than `struct` if any member is non-public](#rc-class)
* [C.9: Minimize exposure of members](#rc-private)

Subsections:

* [C.concrete: Concrete types](#ss-concrete)
* [C.ctor: Constructors, assignments, and destructors](#s-ctor)
* [C.con: Containers and other resource handles](#ss-containers)
* [C.lambdas: Function objects and lambdas](#ss-lambdas)
* [C.hier: Class hierarchies (OOP)](#ss-hier)
* [C.over: Overloading and overloaded operators](#ss-overload)
* [C.union: Unions](#ss-union)
