# C.4: Make a function a member only if it needs direct access to the representation of a class

##### Reason

Less coupling than with member functions, fewer functions that can cause trouble by modifying object state, reduces the number of functions that need to be modified after a change in representation.

##### Example

    class Date {
        // ... relatively small interface ...
    };

    // helper functions:
    Date next_weekday(Date);
    bool operator==(Date, Date);

The "helper functions" have no need for direct access to the representation of a `Date`.

##### Note

This rule becomes even better if C++ gets ["uniform function call"](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2016/p0251r0.pdf).

##### Exception

The language requires `virtual` functions to be members, and not all `virtual` functions directly access data.
In particular, members of an abstract class rarely do.

Note [multi-methods](https://web.archive.org/web/20200605021759/https://parasol.tamu.edu/~yuriys/papers/OMM10.pdf).

##### Exception

The language requires operators `=`, `()`, `[]`, and `->` to be members.

##### Exception

An overload set could have some members that do not directly access `private` data:

    class Foobar {
    public:
        void foo(long x) { /* manipulate private data */ }
        void foo(double x) { foo(std::lround(x)); }
        // ...
    private:
        // ...
    };

##### Exception

Similarly, a set of functions could be designed to be used in a chain:

    x.scale(0.5).rotate(45).set_color(Color::red);

Typically, some but not all of such functions directly access `private` data.

##### Enforcement

* Look for non-`virtual` member functions that do not touch data members directly.
The snag is that many member functions that do not need to touch data members directly do.
* Ignore `virtual` functions.
* Ignore functions that are part of an overload set out of which at least one function accesses `private` members.
* Ignore functions returning `this`.
