# C.10: Prefer concrete types over class hierarchies

##### Reason

A concrete type is fundamentally simpler than a type in a class hierarchy:
easier to design, easier to implement, easier to use, easier to reason about, smaller, and faster.
You need a reason (use cases) for using a hierarchy.

##### Example

    class Point1 {
        int x, y;
        // ... operations ...
        // ... no virtual functions ...
    };

    class Point2 {
        int x, y;
        // ... operations, some virtual ...
        virtual ~Point2();
    };

    void use()
    {
        Point1 p11 {1, 2};   // make an object on the stack
        Point1 p12 {p11};    // a copy

        auto p21 = make_unique<Point2>(1, 2);   // make an object on the free store
        auto p22 = p21->clone();                // make a copy
        // ...
    }

If a class is part of a hierarchy, we (in real code if not necessarily in small examples) must manipulate its objects through pointers or references.
That implies more memory overhead, more allocations and deallocations, and more run-time overhead to perform the resulting indirections.

##### Note

Concrete types can be stack-allocated and be members of other classes.

##### Note

The use of indirection is fundamental for run-time polymorphic interfaces.
The allocation/deallocation overhead is not (that's just the most common case).
We can use a base class as the interface of a scoped object of a derived class.
This is done where dynamic allocation is prohibited (e.g. hard-real-time) and to provide a stable interface to some kinds of plug-ins.


##### Enforcement

???
