# C.30: Define a destructor if a class needs an explicit action at object destruction

##### Reason

A destructor is implicitly invoked at the end of an object's lifetime.
If the default destructor is sufficient, use it.
Only define a non-default destructor if a class needs to execute code that is not already part of its members' destructors.

##### Example

    template<typename A>
    struct final_action {   // slightly simplified
        A act;
        final_action(A a) : act{a} {}
        ~final_action() { act(); }
    };

    template<typename A>
    final_action<A> finally(A act)   // deduce action type
    {
        return final_action<A>{act};
    }

    void test()
    {
        auto act = finally([] { cout << "Exit test\n"; });  // establish exit action
        // ...
        if (something) return;   // act done here
        // ...
    } // act done here

The whole purpose of `final_action` is to get a piece of code (usually a lambda) executed upon destruction.

##### Note

There are two general categories of classes that need a user-defined destructor:

* A class with a resource that is not already represented as a class with a destructor, e.g., a `vector` or a transaction class.
* A class that exists primarily to execute an action upon destruction, such as a tracer or `final_action`.

##### Example, bad

    class Foo {   // bad; use the default destructor
    public:
        // ...
        ~Foo() { s = ""; i = 0; vi.clear(); }  // clean up
    private:
        string s;
        int i;
        vector<int> vi;
    };

The default destructor does it better, more efficiently, and can't get it wrong.

##### Enforcement

Look for likely "implicit resources", such as pointers and references. Look for classes with destructors even though all their data members have destructors.
