# C.33: If a class has an owning pointer member, define a destructor

##### Reason

An owned object must be `delete`d upon destruction of the object that owns it.

##### Example

A pointer member could represent a resource.
[A `T*` should not do so](#rr-ptr), but in older code, that's common.
Consider a `T*` a possible owner and therefore suspect.

    template<typename T>
    class Smart_ptr {
        T* p;   // BAD: vague about ownership of *p
        // ...
    public:
        // ... no user-defined default operations ...
    };

    void use(Smart_ptr<int> p1)
    {
        // error: p2.p leaked (if not nullptr and not owned by some other code)
        auto p2 = p1;
    }

Note that if you define a destructor, you must define or delete [all default operations](#rc-five):

    template<typename T>
    class Smart_ptr2 {
        T* p;   // BAD: vague about ownership of *p
        // ...
    public:
        // ... no user-defined copy operations ...
        ~Smart_ptr2() { delete p; }  // p is an owner!
    };

    void use(Smart_ptr2<int> p1)
    {
        auto p2 = p1;   // error: double deletion
    }

The default copy operation will just copy the `p1.p` into `p2.p` leading to a double destruction of `p1.p`. Be explicit about ownership:

    template<typename T>
    class Smart_ptr3 {
        owner<T*> p;   // OK: explicit about ownership of *p
        // ...
    public:
        // ...
        // ... copy and move operations ...
        ~Smart_ptr3() { delete p; }
    };

    void use(Smart_ptr3<int> p1)
    {
        auto p2 = p1;   // OK: no double deletion
    }

##### Note

Often the simplest way to get a destructor is to replace the pointer with a smart pointer (e.g., `std::unique_ptr`) and let the compiler arrange for proper destruction to be done implicitly.

##### Note

Why not just require all owning pointers to be "smart pointers"?
That would sometimes require non-trivial code changes and might affect ABIs.

##### Enforcement

* A class with a pointer data member is suspect.
* A class with an `owner<T>` should define its default operations.
