# C.43: Ensure that a copyable class has a default constructor

##### Reason

That is, ensure that if a concrete class is copyable it also satisfies the rest of "semiregular."

Many language and library facilities rely on default constructors to initialize their elements, e.g. `T a[10]` and `std::vector<T> v(10)`.
A default constructor often simplifies the task of defining a suitable [moved-from state](#???) for a type that is also copyable.

##### Example

    class Date { // BAD: no default constructor
    public:
        Date(int dd, int mm, int yyyy);
        // ...
    };

    vector<Date> vd1(1000);   // default Date needed here
    vector<Date> vd2(1000, Date{7, Month::October, 1885});   // alternative

The default constructor is only auto-generated if there is no user-declared constructor, hence it's impossible to initialize the vector `vd1` in the example above.
The absence of a default value can cause surprises for users and complicate its use, so if one can be reasonably defined, it should be.

`Date` is chosen to encourage thought:
There is no "natural" default date (the big bang is too far back in time to be useful for most people), so this example is non-trivial.
`{0, 0, 0}` is not a valid date in most calendar systems, so choosing that would be introducing something like floating-point's `NaN`.
However, most realistic `Date` classes have a "first date" (e.g. January 1, 1970 is popular), so making that the default is usually trivial.

    class Date {
    public:
        Date(int dd, int mm, int yyyy);
        Date() = default; // [See also](#rc-default)
        // ...
    private:
        int dd {1};
        int mm {1};
        int yyyy {1970};
        // ...
    };

    vector<Date> vd1(1000);

##### Note

A class with members that all have default constructors implicitly gets a default constructor:

    struct X {
        string s;
        vector<int> v;
    };

    X x; // means X{ { }, { } }; that is the empty string and the empty vector

Beware that built-in types are not properly default constructed:

    struct X {
        string s;
        int i;
    };

    void f()
    {
        X x;    // x.s is initialized to the empty string; x.i is uninitialized

        cout << x.s << ' ' << x.i << '\n';
        ++x.i;
    }

Statically allocated objects of built-in types are by default initialized to `0`, but local built-in variables are not.
Beware that your compiler might default initialize local built-in variables, whereas an optimized build will not.
Thus, code like the example above might appear to work, but it relies on undefined behavior.
Assuming that you want initialization, an explicit default initialization can help:

    struct X {
        string s;
        int i {};   // default initialize (to 0)
    };

##### Notes

Classes that don't have a reasonable default construction are usually not copyable either, so they don't fall under this guideline.

For example, a base class should not be copyable, and so does not necessarily need a default constructor:

    // Shape is an abstract base class, not a copyable type.
    // It might or might not need a default constructor.
    struct Shape {
        virtual void draw() = 0;
        virtual void rotate(int) = 0;
        // =delete copy/move functions
        // ...
    };

A class that must acquire a caller-provided resource during construction often cannot have a default constructor, but it does not fall under this guideline because such a class is usually not copyable anyway:

    // std::lock_guard is not a copyable type.
    // It does not have a default constructor.
    lock_guard g {mx};  // guard the mutex mx
    lock_guard g2;      // error: guarding nothing

A class that has a "special state" that must be handled separately from other states by member functions or users causes extra work
(and most likely more errors). Such a type can naturally use the special state as a default constructed value, whether or not it is copyable:

    // std::ofstream is not a copyable type.
    // It does happen to have a default constructor
    // that goes along with a special "not open" state.
    ofstream out {"Foobar"};
    // ...
    out << log(time, transaction);

Similar special-state types that are copyable, such as copyable smart pointers that have the special state "==nullptr", should use the special state as their default constructed value.

However, it is preferable to have a default constructor default to a meaningful state such as `std::string`s `""` and `std::vector`s `{}`.

##### Enforcement

* Flag classes that are copyable by `=` without a default constructor
* Flag classes that are comparable with `==` but not copyable
