# C.48: Prefer default member initializers to member initializers in constructors for constant initializers

##### Reason

Makes it explicit that the same value is expected to be used in all constructors. Avoids repetition. Avoids maintenance problems. It leads to the shortest and most efficient code.

##### Example, bad

    class X {   // BAD
        int i;
        string s;
        int j;
    public:
        X() :i{666}, s{"qqq"} { }   // j is uninitialized
        X(int ii) :i{ii} {}         // s is "" and j is uninitialized
        // ...
    };

How would a maintainer know whether `j` was deliberately uninitialized (probably a bad idea anyway) and whether it was intentional to give `s` the default value `""` in one case and `qqq` in another (almost certainly a bug)? The problem with `j` (forgetting to initialize a member) often happens when a new member is added to an existing class.

##### Example

    class X2 {
        int i {666};
        string s {"qqq"};
        int j {0};
    public:
        X2() = default;        // all members are initialized to their defaults
        X2(int ii) :i{ii} {}   // s and j initialized to their defaults
        // ...
    };

**Alternative**: We can get part of the benefits from default arguments to constructors, and that is not uncommon in older code. However, that is less explicit, causes more arguments to be passed, and is repetitive when there is more than one constructor:

    class X3 {   // BAD: inexplicit, argument passing overhead
        int i;
        string s;
        int j;
    public:
        X3(int ii = 666, const string& ss = "qqq", int jj = 0)
            :i{ii}, s{ss}, j{jj} { }   // all members are initialized to their defaults
        // ...
    };

##### Enforcement

* (Simple) Every constructor should initialize every data member (either explicitly, via a delegating ctor call or via default construction).
* (Simple) Default arguments to constructors suggest a default member initializer might be more appropriate.
