# C.64: A move operation should move and leave its source in a valid state

##### Reason

That is the generally assumed semantics.
After `y = std::move(x)` the value of `y` should be the value `x` had and `x` should be in a valid state.

##### Example

    class X {   // OK: value semantics
    public:
        X();
        X(X&& a) noexcept;  // move X
        X& operator=(X&& a) noexcept; // move-assign X
        void modify();     // change the value of X
        // ...
        ~X() { delete[] p; }
    private:
        T* p;
        int sz;
    };

    X::X(X&& a) noexcept
        :p{a.p}, sz{a.sz}  // steal representation
    {
        a.p = nullptr;     // set to "empty"
        a.sz = 0;
    }

    void use()
    {
        X x{};
        // ...
        X y = std::move(x);
        x = X{};   // OK
    } // OK: x can be destroyed

##### Note

Ideally, that moved-from should be the default value of the type.
Ensure that unless there is an exceptionally good reason not to.
However, not all types have a default value and for some types establishing the default value can be expensive.
The standard requires only that the moved-from object can be destroyed.
Often, we can easily and cheaply do better: The standard library assumes that it is possible to assign to a moved-from object.
Always leave the moved-from object in some (necessarily specified) valid state.

##### Note

Unless there is an exceptionally strong reason not to, make `x = std::move(y); y = z;` work with the conventional semantics.

##### Enforcement

(Not enforceable) Look for assignments to members in the move operation. If there is a default constructor, compare those assignments to the initializations in the default constructor.
