# C.120: Use class hierarchies to represent concepts with inherent hierarchical structure (only)

##### Reason

Direct representation of ideas in code eases comprehension and maintenance. Make sure the idea represented in the base class exactly matches all derived types and there is not a better way to express it than using the tight coupling of inheritance.

Do *not* use inheritance when simply having a data member will do. Usually this means that the derived type needs to override a base virtual function or needs access to a protected member.

##### Example

    class DrawableUIElement {
    public:
        virtual void render() const = 0;
        // ...
    };

    class AbstractButton : public DrawableUIElement {
    public:
        virtual void onClick() = 0;
        // ...
    };

    class PushButton : public AbstractButton {
        void render() const override;
        void onClick() override;
        // ...
    };

    class Checkbox : public AbstractButton {
    // ...
    };

##### Example, bad

Do *not* represent non-hierarchical domain concepts as class hierarchies.

    template<typename T>
    class Container {
    public:
        // list operations:
        virtual T& get() = 0;
        virtual void put(T&) = 0;
        virtual void insert(Position) = 0;
        // ...
        // vector operations:
        virtual T& operator[](int) = 0;
        virtual void sort() = 0;
        // ...
        // tree operations:
        virtual void balance() = 0;
        // ...
    };

Here most overriding classes cannot implement most of the functions required in the interface well.
Thus the base class becomes an implementation burden.
Furthermore, the user of `Container` cannot rely on the member functions actually performing meaningful operations reasonably efficiently;
it might throw an exception instead.
Thus users have to resort to run-time checking and/or
not using this (over)general interface in favor of a particular interface found by a run-time type inquiry (e.g., a `dynamic_cast`).

##### Enforcement

* Look for classes with lots of members that do nothing but throw.
* Flag every use of a non-public base class `B` where the derived class `D` does not override a virtual function or access a protected member in `B`, and `B` is not one of the following: empty, a template parameter or parameter pack of `D`, a class template specialized with `D`.
