# ES.23: Prefer the `{}`-initializer syntax

##### Reason

Prefer `{}`. The rules for `{}` initialization are simpler, more general, less ambiguous, and safer than for other forms of initialization.

Use `=` only when you are sure that there can be no narrowing conversions. For built-in arithmetic types, use `=` only with `auto`.

Avoid `()` initialization, which allows parsing ambiguities.

##### Example

    int x {f(99)};
    int y = x;
    vector<int> v = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6};

##### Exception

For containers, there is a tradition for using `{...}` for a list of elements and `(...)` for sizes:

    vector<int> v1(10);    // vector of 10 elements with the default value 0
    vector<int> v2{10};    // vector of 1 element with the value 10

    vector<int> v3(1, 2);  // vector of 1 element with the value 2
    vector<int> v4{1, 2};  // vector of 2 elements with the values 1 and 2

##### Note

`{}`-initializers do not allow narrowing conversions (and that is usually a good thing) and allow explicit constructors (which is fine, we're intentionally initializing a new variable).

##### Example

    int x {7.9};   // error: narrowing
    int y = 7.9;   // OK: y becomes 7. Hope for a compiler warning
    int z {gsl::narrow_cast<int>(7.9)};    // OK: you asked for it
    auto zz = gsl::narrow_cast<int>(7.9);  // OK: you asked for it

##### Note

`{}` initialization can be used for nearly all initialization; other forms of initialization can't:

    auto p = new vector<int> {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};   // initialized vector
    D::D(int a, int b) :m{a, b} {   // member initializer (e.g., m might be a pair)
        // ...
    };
    X var {};   // initialize var to be empty
    struct S {
        int m {7};   // default initializer for a member
        // ...
    };

For that reason, `{}`-initialization is often called "uniform initialization"
(though there unfortunately are a few irregularities left).

##### Note

Initialization of a variable declared using `auto` with a single value, e.g., `{v}`, had surprising results until C++17.
The C++17 rules are somewhat less surprising:

    auto x1 {7};        // x1 is an int with the value 7
    auto x2 = {7};      // x2 is an initializer_list<int> with an element 7

    auto x11 {7, 8};    // error: two initializers
    auto x22 = {7, 8};  // x22 is an initializer_list<int> with elements 7 and 8

Use `={...}` if you really want an `initializer_list<T>`

    auto fib10 = {1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55};   // fib10 is a list

##### Note

`={}` gives copy initialization whereas `{}` gives direct initialization.
Like the distinction between copy-initialization and direct-initialization itself, this can lead to surprises.
`{}` accepts `explicit` constructors; `={}` does not. For example:

    struct Z { explicit Z() {} };

    Z z1{};     // OK: direct initialization, so we use explicit constructor
    Z z2 = {};  // error: copy initialization, so we cannot use the explicit constructor

Use plain `{}`-initialization unless you specifically want to disable explicit constructors.

##### Example

    template<typename T>
    void f()
    {
        T x1(1);    // T initialized with 1
        T x0();     // bad: function declaration (often a mistake)

        T y1 {1};   // T initialized with 1
        T y0 {};    // default initialized T
        // ...
    }

**See also**: [Discussion](#???)

##### Enforcement

* Flag uses of `=` to initialize arithmetic types where narrowing occurs.
* Flag uses of `()` initialization syntax that are actually declarations. (Many compilers should warn on this already.)
