# ES.65: Don't dereference an invalid pointer

##### Reason

Dereferencing an invalid pointer, such as `nullptr`, is undefined behavior, typically leading to immediate crashes,
wrong results, or memory corruption.

##### Note

By pointer here we mean any indirection to an object, including equivalently an iterator or view.

##### Note

This rule is an obvious and well-known language rule, but can be hard to follow.
It takes good coding style, library support, and static analysis to eliminate violations without major overhead.
This is a major part of the discussion of [C++'s model for type- and resource-safety](#Stroustrup15).

**See also**:

* Use [RAII](#rr-raii) to avoid lifetime problems.
* Use [unique_ptr](#rf-unique_ptr) to avoid lifetime problems.
* Use [shared_ptr](#rf-shared_ptr) to avoid lifetime problems.
* Use [references](#rf-ptr-ref) when `nullptr` isn't a possibility.
* Use [not_null](#rf-nullptr) to catch unexpected `nullptr` early.
* Use the [bounds profile](#ss-bounds) to avoid range errors.


##### Example

    void f()
    {
        int x = 0;
        int* p = &x;

        if (condition()) {
            int y = 0;
            p = &y;
        } // invalidates p

        *p = 42;            // BAD, p might be invalid if the branch was taken
    }

To resolve the problem, either extend the lifetime of the object the pointer is intended to refer to, or shorten the lifetime of the pointer (move the dereference to before the pointed-to object's lifetime ends).

    void f1()
    {
        int x = 0;
        int* p = &x;

        int y = 0;
        if (condition()) {
            p = &y;
        }

        *p = 42;            // OK, p points to x or y and both are still in scope
    }

Unfortunately, most invalid pointer problems are harder to spot and harder to fix.

##### Example

    void f(int* p)
    {
        int x = *p; // BAD: how do we know that p is valid?
    }

There is a huge amount of such code.
Most works -- after lots of testing -- but in isolation it is impossible to tell whether `p` could be the `nullptr`.
Consequently, this is also a major source of errors.
There are many approaches to dealing with this potential problem:

    void f1(int* p) // deal with nullptr
    {
        if (!p) {
            // deal with nullptr (allocate, return, throw, make p point to something, whatever)
        }
        int x = *p;
    }

There are two potential problems with testing for `nullptr`:

* it is not always obvious what to do if we find `nullptr`
* the test can be redundant and/or relatively expensive
* it is not obvious if the test is to protect against a violation or part of the required logic.

<!-- comment needed for code block after list -->
    void f2(int* p) // state that p is not supposed to be nullptr
    {
        assert(p);
        int x = *p;
    }

This would carry a cost only when the assertion checking was enabled and would give a compiler/analyzer useful information.
This would work even better if/when C++ gets direct support for contracts:

    void f3(int* p) // state that p is not supposed to be nullptr
        [[expects: p]]
    {
        int x = *p;
    }

Alternatively, we could use `gsl::not_null` to ensure that `p` is not the `nullptr`.

    void f(not_null<int*> p)
    {
        int x = *p;
    }

These remedies take care of `nullptr` only.
Remember that there are other ways of getting an invalid pointer.

##### Example

    void f(int* p)  // old code, doesn't use owner
    {
        delete p;
    }

    void g()        // old code: uses naked new
    {
        auto q = new int{7};
        f(q);
        int x = *q; // BAD: dereferences invalid pointer
    }

##### Example

    void f()
    {
        vector<int> v(10);
        int* p = &v[5];
        v.push_back(99); // could reallocate v's elements
        int x = *p; // BAD: dereferences potentially invalid pointer
    }

##### Enforcement

This rule is part of the [lifetime safety profile](#ss-lifetime)

* Flag a dereference of a pointer that points to an object that has gone out of scope
* Flag a dereference of a pointer that might have been invalidated by assigning a `nullptr`
* Flag a dereference of a pointer that might have been invalidated by a `delete`
* Flag a dereference to a pointer to a container element that might have been invalidated by dereference
