# ES.87: Don't add redundant `==` or `!=` to conditions

##### Reason

Doing so avoids verbosity and eliminates some opportunities for mistakes.
Helps make style consistent and conventional.

##### Example

By definition, a condition in an `if`-statement, `while`-statement, or a `for`-statement selects between `true` and `false`.
A numeric value is compared to `0` and a pointer value to `nullptr`.

    // These all mean "if p is not nullptr"
    if (p) { ... }            // good
    if (p != 0) { ... }       // redundant !=0, bad: don't use 0 for pointers
    if (p != nullptr) { ... } // redundant !=nullptr, not recommended

Often, `if (p)` is read as "if `p` is valid" which is a direct expression of the programmers intent,
whereas `if (p != nullptr)` would be a long-winded workaround.

##### Example

This rule is especially useful when a declaration is used as a condition

    if (auto pc = dynamic_cast<Circle*>(ps)) { ... } // execute if ps points to a kind of Circle, good

    if (auto pc = dynamic_cast<Circle*>(ps); pc != nullptr) { ... } // not recommended

##### Example

Note that implicit conversions to bool are applied in conditions.
For example:

    for (string s; cin >> s; ) v.push_back(s);

This invokes `istream`'s `operator bool()`.

##### Note

Explicit comparison of an integer to `0` is in general not redundant.
The reason is that (as opposed to pointers and Booleans) an integer often has more than two reasonable values.
Furthermore `0` (zero) is often used to indicate success.
Consequently, it is best to be specific about the comparison.

    void f(int i)
    {
        if (i)            // suspect
        // ...
        if (i == success) // possibly better
        // ...
    }

Always remember that an integer can have more than two values.

##### Example, bad

It has been noted that

    if(strcmp(p1, p2)) { ... }   // are the two C-style strings equal? (mistake!)

is a common beginners error.
If you use C-style strings, you must know the `<cstring>` functions well.
Being verbose and writing

    if(strcmp(p1, p2) != 0) { ... }   // are the two C-style strings equal? (mistake!)

would not in itself save you.

##### Note

The opposite condition is most easily expressed using a negation:

    // These all mean "if p is nullptr"
    if (!p) { ... }           // good
    if (p == 0) { ... }       // redundant == 0, bad: don't use 0 for pointers
    if (p == nullptr) { ... } // redundant == nullptr, not recommended

##### Enforcement

Easy, just check for redundant use of `!=` and `==` in conditions.
