# E.2: Throw an exception to signal that a function can't perform its assigned task

##### Reason

To make error handling systematic, robust, and non-repetitive.

##### Example

    struct Foo {
        vector<Thing> v;
        File_handle f;
        string s;
    };

    void use()
    {
        Foo bar { {Thing{1}, Thing{2}, Thing{monkey} }, {"my_file", "r"}, "Here we go!"};
        // ...
    }

Here, `vector` and `string`s constructors might not be able to allocate sufficient memory for their elements, `vector`s constructor might not be able to copy the `Thing`s in its initializer list, and `File_handle` might not be able to open the required file.
In each case, they throw an exception for `use()`'s caller to handle.
If `use()` could handle the failure to construct `bar` it can take control using `try`/`catch`.
In either case, `Foo`'s constructor correctly destroys constructed members before passing control to whatever tried to create a `Foo`.
Note that there is no return value that could contain an error code.

The `File_handle` constructor might be defined like this:

    File_handle::File_handle(const string& name, const string& mode)
        : f{fopen(name.c_str(), mode.c_str())}
    {
        if (!f)
            throw runtime_error{"File_handle: could not open " + name + " as " + mode};
    }

##### Note

It is often said that exceptions are meant to signal exceptional events and failures.
However, that's a bit circular because "what is exceptional?"
Examples:

* A precondition that cannot be met
* A constructor that cannot construct an object (failure to establish its class's [invariant](#rc-struct))
* An out-of-range error (e.g., `v[v.size()] = 7`)
* Inability to acquire a resource (e.g., the network is down)

In contrast, termination of an ordinary loop is not exceptional.
Unless the loop was meant to be infinite, termination is normal and expected.

##### Note

Don't use a `throw` as simply an alternative way of returning a value from a function.

##### Exception

Some systems, such as hard-real-time systems require a guarantee that an action is taken in a (typically short) constant maximum time known before execution starts. Such systems can use exceptions only if there is tool support for accurately predicting the maximum time to recover from a `throw`.

**See also**: [RAII](#re-raii)

**See also**: [discussion](#sd-noexcept)

##### Note

Before deciding that you cannot afford or don't like exception-based error handling, have a look at the [alternatives](#re-no-throw-raii);
they have their own complexities and problems.
Also, as far as possible, measure before making claims about efficiency.
