# SF.10: Avoid dependencies on implicitly `#include`d names

##### Reason

Avoid surprises.
Avoid having to change `#include`s if an `#include`d header changes.
Avoid accidentally becoming dependent on implementation details and logically separate entities included in a header.

##### Example, bad

    #include <iostream>
    using namespace std;

    void use()
    {
        string s;
        cin >> s;               // fine
        getline(cin, s);        // error: getline() not defined
        if (s == "surprise") {  // error == not defined
            // ...
        }
    }

`<iostream>` exposes the definition of `std::string` ("why?" makes for a fun trivia question),
but it is not required to do so by transitively including the entire `<string>` header,
resulting in the popular beginner question "why doesn't `getline(cin,s);` work?"
or even an occasional "`string`s cannot be compared with `==`").

The solution is to explicitly `#include <string>`:

##### Example, good

    #include <iostream>
    #include <string>
    using namespace std;

    void use()
    {
        string s;
        cin >> s;               // fine
        getline(cin, s);        // fine
        if (s == "surprise") {  // fine
            // ...
        }
    }

##### Note

Some headers exist exactly to collect a set of consistent declarations from a variety of headers.
For example:

    // basic_std_lib.h:

    #include <string>
    #include <map>
    #include <iostream>
    #include <random>
    #include <vector>

a user can now get that set of declarations with a single `#include`

    #include "basic_std_lib.h"

This rule against implicit inclusion is not meant to prevent such deliberate aggregation.

##### Enforcement

Enforcement would require some knowledge about what in a header is meant to be "exported" to users and what is there to enable implementation.
No really good solution is possible until we have modules.
