# SL.con.1: Prefer using STL `array` or `vector` instead of a C array

##### Reason

C arrays are less safe, and have no advantages over `array` and `vector`.
For a fixed-length array, use `std::array`, which does not degenerate to a pointer when passed to a function and does know its size.
Also, like a built-in array, a stack-allocated `std::array` keeps its elements on the stack.
For a variable-length array, use `std::vector`, which additionally can change its size and handles memory allocation.

##### Example

    int v[SIZE];                        // BAD

    std::array<int, SIZE> w;            // ok

##### Example

    int* v = new int[initial_size];     // BAD, owning raw pointer
    delete[] v;                         // BAD, manual delete

    std::vector<int> w(initial_size);   // ok

##### Note

Use `gsl::span` for non-owning references into a container.

##### Note

Comparing the performance of a fixed-sized array allocated on the stack against a `vector` with its elements on the free store is bogus.
You could just as well compare a `std::array` on the stack against the result of a `malloc()` accessed through a pointer.
For most code, even the difference between stack allocation and free-store allocation doesn't matter, but the convenience and safety of `vector` does.
People working with code for which that difference matters are quite capable of choosing between `array` and `vector`.

##### Enforcement

* Flag declaration of a C array inside a function or class that also declares an STL container (to avoid excessive noisy warnings on legacy non-STL code). To fix: At least change the C array to a `std::array`.
