# Pro.bounds: Bounds safety profile

This profile makes it easier to construct code that operates within the bounds of allocated blocks of memory.
It does so by focusing on removing the primary sources of bounds violations: pointer arithmetic and array indexing.
One of the core features of this profile is to restrict pointers to only refer to single objects, not arrays.

We define bounds-safety to be the property that a program does not use an object to access memory outside of the range that was allocated for it.
Bounds safety is intended to be complete only when combined with [Type safety](#ss-type) and [Lifetime safety](#ss-lifetime),
which cover other unsafe operations that allow bounds violations.

Bounds safety profile summary:

* <a name="pro-bounds-arithmetic"></a>Bounds.1: Don't use pointer arithmetic. Use `span` instead:
[Pass pointers to single objects (only)](#ri-array) and [Keep pointer arithmetic simple](#res-ptr).
* <a name="pro-bounds-arrayindex"></a>Bounds.2: Only index into arrays using constant expressions:
[Pass pointers to single objects (only)](#ri-array) and [Keep pointer arithmetic simple](#res-ptr).
* <a name="pro-bounds-decay"></a>Bounds.3: No array-to-pointer decay:
[Pass pointers to single objects (only)](#ri-array) and [Keep pointer arithmetic simple](#res-ptr).
* <a name="pro-bounds-stdlib"></a>Bounds.4: Don't use standard-library functions and types that are not bounds-checked:
[Use the standard library in a type-safe manner](#rsl-bounds).

##### Impact

Bounds safety implies that access to an object - notably arrays - does not access beyond the object's memory allocation.
This eliminates a large class of insidious and hard-to-find errors, including the (in)famous "buffer overflow" errors.
This closes security loopholes as well as a prominent source of memory corruption (when writing out of bounds).
Even if an out-of-bounds access is "just a read", it can lead to invariant violations (when the accessed isn't of the assumed type)
and "mysterious values."
