# GSL.view: Views

These types allow the user to distinguish between owning and non-owning pointers and between pointers to a single object and pointers to the first element of a sequence.

These "views" are never owners.

References are never owners (see [R.4](#rr-ref)). Note: References have many opportunities to outlive the objects they refer to (returning a local variable by reference, holding a reference to an element of a vector and doing `push_back`, binding to `std::max(x, y + 1)`, etc). The Lifetime safety profile aims to address those things, but even so `owner<T&>` does not make sense and is discouraged.

The names are mostly ISO standard-library style (lower case and underscore):

* `T*`      // The `T*` is not an owner, might be null; assumed to be pointing to a single element.
* `T&`      // The `T&` is not an owner and can never be a "null reference"; references are always bound to objects.

The "raw-pointer" notation (e.g. `int*`) is assumed to have its most common meaning; that is, a pointer points to an object, but does not own it.
Owners should be converted to resource handles (e.g., `unique_ptr` or `vector<T>`) or marked `owner<T*>`.

* `owner<T*>`   // a `T*` that owns the object pointed/referred to; might be `nullptr`.

`owner` is used to mark owning pointers in code that cannot be upgraded to use proper resource handles.
Reasons for that include:

* Cost of conversion.
* The pointer is used with an ABI.
* The pointer is part of the implementation of a resource handle.

An `owner<T>` differs from a resource handle for a `T` by still requiring an explicit `delete`.

An `owner<T>` is assumed to refer to an object on the free store (heap).

If something is not supposed to be `nullptr`, say so:

* `not_null<T>`   // `T` is usually a pointer type (e.g., `not_null<int*>` and `not_null<owner<Foo*>>`) that must not be `nullptr`.
  `T` can be any type for which `==nullptr` is meaningful.

* `span<T>`       // `[p:p+n)`, constructor from `{p, q}` and `{p, n}`; `T` is the pointer type
* `span_p<T>`     // `{p, predicate}` `[p:q)` where `q` is the first element for which `predicate(*p)` is true

A `span<T>` refers to zero or more mutable `T`s unless `T` is a `const` type. All accesses to elements of the span, notably via `operator[]`, are guaranteed to be bounds-checked by default.

> Note: GSL's `span` (initially called `array_view`) was proposed for inclusion in the C++ standard library, and was adopted (with changes to its name and interface) except only that `std::span` does not provide for guaranteed bounds checking. Therefore GSL changed `span`'s name and interface to track `std::span` and should be exactly the same as `std::span`, and the only difference should be that GSL `span` is fully bounds-safe by default. If bounds-safety might affect its interface, then those change proposals should be brought back via the ISO C++ committee to keep `gsl::span` interface-compatible with `std::span`. If a future evolution of `std::span` adds bounds checking, `gsl::span` can be removed.

"Pointer arithmetic" is best done within `span`s.
A `char*` that points to more than one `char` but is not a C-style string (e.g., a pointer into an input buffer) should be represented by a `span`.

* `zstring`    // a `char*` supposed to be a C-style string; that is, a zero-terminated sequence of `char` or `nullptr`
* `czstring`   // a `const char*` supposed to be a C-style string; that is, a zero-terminated sequence of `const` `char` or `nullptr`

Logically, those last two aliases are not needed, but we are not always logical, and they make the distinction between a pointer to one `char` and a pointer to a C-style string explicit.
A sequence of characters that is not assumed to be zero-terminated should be a `span<char>`, or if that is impossible because of ABI issues a `char*`, rather than a `zstring`.


Use `not_null<zstring>` for C-style strings that cannot be `nullptr`. ??? Do we need a name for `not_null<zstring>`? or is its ugliness a feature?
