# crypto/ecdsa (Go standard library)

Package ecdsa implements the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm,

Import path: crypto/ecdsa   Toolchain: go1.26.4

package ecdsa // import "crypto/ecdsa"

Package ecdsa implements the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm,
as defined in FIPS 186-5.

Signatures generated by this package are not deterministic, but entropy is mixed
with the private key and the message, achieving the same level of security in
case of randomness source failure.

Operations involving private keys are implemented using constant-time
algorithms, as long as an elliptic.Curve returned by elliptic.P224,
elliptic.P256, elliptic.P384, or elliptic.P521 is used.

[FIPS 186-5]: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-5.pdf

FUNCTIONS

func Sign(rand io.Reader, priv *PrivateKey, hash []byte) (r, s *big.Int, err error)
    Sign signs a hash (which should be the result of hashing a larger message)
    using the private key, priv. If the hash is longer than the bit-length of
    the private key's curve order, the hash will be truncated to that length.
    It returns the signature as a pair of integers. Most applications should use
    SignASN1 instead of dealing directly with r, s.

    The signature is randomized. Since Go 1.26, a secure source of random bytes
    is always used, and the Reader is ignored unless GODEBUG=cryptocustomrand=1
    is set. This setting will be removed in a future Go release. Instead,
    use testing/cryptotest.SetGlobalRandom.

func SignASN1(r io.Reader, priv *PrivateKey, hash []byte) ([]byte, error)
    SignASN1 signs a hash (which should be the result of hashing a larger
    message) using the private key, priv. If the hash is longer than the
    bit-length of the private key's curve order, the hash will be truncated to
    that length. It returns the ASN.1 encoded signature.

    The signature is randomized. Since Go 1.26, a secure source of random bytes
    is always used, and the Reader is ignored unless GODEBUG=cryptocustomrand=1
    is set. This setting will be removed in a future Go release. Instead,
    use testing/cryptotest.SetGlobalRandom.

func Verify(pub *PublicKey, hash []byte, r, s *big.Int) bool
    Verify verifies the signature in r, s of hash using the public key, pub.
    Its return value records whether the signature is valid. Most applications
    should use VerifyASN1 instead of dealing directly with r, s.

    The inputs are not considered confidential, and may leak through timing side
    channels, or if an attacker has control of part of the inputs.

func VerifyASN1(pub *PublicKey, hash, sig []byte) bool
    VerifyASN1 verifies the ASN.1 encoded signature, sig, of hash using the
    public key, pub. Its return value records whether the signature is valid.

    The inputs are not considered confidential, and may leak through timing side
    channels, or if an attacker has control of part of the inputs.


TYPES

type PrivateKey struct {
	PublicKey

	// D is the private scalar value.
	//
	// Deprecated: modifying the raw value can produce invalid keys, and may
	// invalidate internal optimizations; moreover, [big.Int] methods are not
	// suitable for operating on cryptographic values. To encode and decode
	// PrivateKey values, use [PrivateKey.Bytes] and [ParseRawPrivateKey] or
	// [crypto/x509.MarshalPKCS8PrivateKey] and [crypto/x509.ParsePKCS8PrivateKey].
	// For ECDH, use [crypto/ecdh].
	D *big.Int
}
    PrivateKey represents an ECDSA private key.

func GenerateKey(c elliptic.Curve, r io.Reader) (*PrivateKey, error)
    GenerateKey generates a new ECDSA private key for the specified curve.

    Since Go 1.26, a secure source of random bytes is always used,
    and the Reader is ignored unless GODEBUG=cryptocustomrand=1 is set.
    This setting will be removed in a future Go release. Instead, use
    testing/cryptotest.SetGlobalRandom.

func ParseRawPrivateKey(curve elliptic.Curve, data []byte) (*PrivateKey, error)
    ParseRawPrivateKey parses a private key encoded as a fixed-length big-endian
    integer, according to SEC 1, Version 2.0, Section 2.3.6 (sometimes referred
    to as the raw format). It returns an error if the value is not reduced
    modulo the curve's order, or if it's zero.

    curve must be one of elliptic.P224, elliptic.P256, elliptic.P384,
    or elliptic.P521, or ParseRawPrivateKey returns an error.

    ParseRawPrivateKey accepts the same format as ecdh.Curve.NewPrivateKey does
    for NIST curves, but returns a PrivateKey instead of an ecdh.PrivateKey.

    Note that private keys are more commonly encoded in ASN.1 or PKCS#8
    format, which can be parsed with crypto/x509.ParseECPrivateKey or
    crypto/x509.ParsePKCS8PrivateKey (and encoding/pem).

func (priv *PrivateKey) Bytes() ([]byte, error)
    Bytes encodes the private key as a fixed-length big-endian integer according
    to SEC 1, Version 2.0, Section 2.3.6 (sometimes referred to as the raw
    format). It returns an error if the private key is invalid.

    PrivateKey.Curve must be one of elliptic.P224, elliptic.P256, elliptic.P384,
    or elliptic.P521, or Bytes returns an error.

    Bytes returns the same format as ecdh.PrivateKey.Bytes does for NIST curves.

    Note that private keys are more commonly encoded in ASN.1 or PKCS#8
    format, which can be generated with crypto/x509.MarshalECPrivateKey or
    crypto/x509.MarshalPKCS8PrivateKey (and encoding/pem).

func (priv *PrivateKey) ECDH() (*ecdh.PrivateKey, error)
    ECDH returns k as a ecdh.PrivateKey. It returns an error if the key is
    invalid according to the definition of ecdh.Curve.NewPrivateKey, or if the
    Curve is not supported by crypto/ecdh.

func (priv *PrivateKey) Equal(x crypto.PrivateKey) bool
    Equal reports whether priv and x have the same value.

    See PublicKey.Equal for details on how Curve is compared.

func (priv *PrivateKey) Public() crypto.PublicKey
    Public returns the public key corresponding to priv.

func (priv *PrivateKey) Sign(random io.Reader, digest []byte, opts crypto.SignerOpts) ([]byte, error)
    Sign signs a hash (which should be the result of hashing a larger message
    with opts.HashFunc()) using the private key, priv. If the hash is longer
    than the bit-length of the private key's curve order, the hash will be
    truncated to that length. It returns the ASN.1 encoded signature, like
    SignASN1.

    If random is not nil, the signature is randomized. Most applications should
    use crypto/rand.Reader as random, but unless GODEBUG=cryptocustomrand=1 is
    set, a secure source of random bytes is always used, and the actual Reader
    is ignored. The GODEBUG setting will be removed in a future Go release.
    Instead, use testing/cryptotest.SetGlobalRandom.

    If random is nil, Sign will produce a deterministic signature according
    to RFC 6979. When producing a deterministic signature, opts.HashFunc()
    must be the function used to produce digest and priv.Curve must be one of
    elliptic.P224, elliptic.P256, elliptic.P384, or elliptic.P521.

type PublicKey struct {
	elliptic.Curve

	// X, Y are the coordinates of the public key point.
	//
	// Deprecated: modifying the raw coordinates can produce invalid keys, and may
	// invalidate internal optimizations; moreover, [big.Int] methods are not
	// suitable for operating on cryptographic values. To encode and decode
	// PublicKey values, use [PublicKey.Bytes] and [ParseUncompressedPublicKey]
	// or [crypto/x509.MarshalPKIXPublicKey] and [crypto/x509.ParsePKIXPublicKey].
	// For ECDH, use [crypto/ecdh]. For lower-level elliptic curve operations,
	// use a third-party module like filippo.io/nistec.
	X, Y *big.Int
}
    PublicKey represents an ECDSA public key.

func ParseUncompressedPublicKey(curve elliptic.Curve, data []byte) (*PublicKey, error)
    ParseUncompressedPublicKey parses a public key encoded as an uncompressed
    point according to SEC 1, Version 2.0, Section 2.3.3 (also known as the
    X9.62 uncompressed format). It returns an error if the point is not in
    uncompressed form, is not on the curve, or is the point at infinity.

    curve must be one of elliptic.P224, elliptic.P256, elliptic.P384,
    or elliptic.P521, or ParseUncompressedPublicKey returns an error.

    ParseUncompressedPublicKey accepts the same format as
    ecdh.Curve.NewPublicKey does for NIST curves, but returns a PublicKey
    instead of an ecdh.PublicKey.

    Note that public keys are more commonly encoded in DER (or PEM) format,
    which can be parsed with crypto/x509.ParsePKIXPublicKey (and encoding/pem).

func (pub *PublicKey) Bytes() ([]byte, error)
    Bytes encodes the public key as an uncompressed point according to SEC 1,
    Version 2.0, Section 2.3.3 (also known as the X9.62 uncompressed format).
    It returns an error if the public key is invalid.

    PublicKey.Curve must be one of elliptic.P224, elliptic.P256, elliptic.P384,
    or elliptic.P521, or Bytes returns an error.

    Bytes returns the same format as ecdh.PublicKey.Bytes does for NIST curves.

    Note that public keys are more commonly encoded in DER (or PEM) format,
    which can be generated with crypto/x509.MarshalPKIXPublicKey (and
    encoding/pem).

func (pub *PublicKey) ECDH() (*ecdh.PublicKey, error)
    ECDH returns k as a ecdh.PublicKey. It returns an error if the key is
    invalid according to the definition of ecdh.Curve.NewPublicKey, or if the
    Curve is not supported by crypto/ecdh.

func (pub *PublicKey) Equal(x crypto.PublicKey) bool
    Equal reports whether pub and x have the same value.

    Two keys are only considered to have the same value if they have
    the same Curve value. Note that for example elliptic.P256 and
    elliptic.P256().Params() are different values, as the latter is a generic
    not constant time implementation.
