# math/rand/v2 (Go standard library)

Package rand implements pseudo-random number generators suitable for tasks such

Import path: math/rand/v2   Toolchain: go1.26.4

package rand // import "math/rand/v2"

Package rand implements pseudo-random number generators suitable for tasks such
as simulation, but it should not be used for security-sensitive work.

Random numbers are generated by a Source, usually wrapped in a Rand. Both
types should be used by a single goroutine at a time: sharing among multiple
goroutines requires some kind of synchronization.

Top-level functions, such as Float64 and Int, are safe for concurrent use by
multiple goroutines.

This package's outputs might be easily predictable regardless of how it's
seeded. For random numbers suitable for security-sensitive work, see the
crypto/rand package.

FUNCTIONS

func ExpFloat64() float64
    ExpFloat64 returns an exponentially distributed float64 in the range (0,
    +math.MaxFloat64] with an exponential distribution whose rate parameter
    (lambda) is 1 and whose mean is 1/lambda (1) from the default Source. To
    produce a distribution with a different rate parameter, callers can adjust
    the output using:

        sample = ExpFloat64() / desiredRateParameter

func Float32() float32
    Float32 returns, as a float32, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0) from the default Source.

func Float64() float64
    Float64 returns, as a float64, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0) from the default Source.

func Int() int
    Int returns a non-negative pseudo-random int from the default Source.

func Int32() int32
    Int32 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 31-bit integer as an int32 from
    the default Source.

func Int32N(n int32) int32
    Int32N returns, as an int32, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n <= 0.

func Int64() int64
    Int64 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 63-bit integer as an int64 from
    the default Source.

func Int64N(n int64) int64
    Int64N returns, as an int64, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n <= 0.

func IntN(n int) int
    IntN returns, as an int, a pseudo-random number in the half-open interval
    [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n <= 0.

func N[Int intType](n Int) Int
    N returns a pseudo-random number in the half-open interval [0,n) from the
    default Source. The type parameter Int can be any integer type. It panics if
    n <= 0.

func NormFloat64() float64
    NormFloat64 returns a normally distributed float64 in the range
    [-math.MaxFloat64, +math.MaxFloat64] with standard normal distribution (mean
    = 0, stddev = 1) from the default Source. To produce a different normal
    distribution, callers can adjust the output using:

        sample = NormFloat64() * desiredStdDev + desiredMean

func Perm(n int) []int
    Perm returns, as a slice of n ints, a pseudo-random permutation of the
    integers in the half-open interval [0,n) from the default Source.

func Shuffle(n int, swap func(i, j int))
    Shuffle pseudo-randomizes the order of elements using the default Source. n
    is the number of elements. Shuffle panics if n < 0. swap swaps the elements
    with indexes i and j.

func Uint() uint
    Uint returns a pseudo-random uint from the default Source.

func Uint32() uint32
    Uint32 returns a pseudo-random 32-bit value as a uint32 from the default
    Source.

func Uint32N(n uint32) uint32
    Uint32N returns, as a uint32, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n == 0.

func Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 returns a pseudo-random 64-bit value as a uint64 from the default
    Source.

func Uint64N(n uint64) uint64
    Uint64N returns, as a uint64, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n == 0.

func UintN(n uint) uint
    UintN returns, as a uint, a pseudo-random number in the half-open interval
    [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n == 0.


TYPES

type ChaCha8 struct {
	// Has unexported fields.
}
    A ChaCha8 is a ChaCha8-based cryptographically strong random number
    generator.

func NewChaCha8(seed [32]byte) *ChaCha8
    NewChaCha8 returns a new ChaCha8 seeded with the given seed.

func (c *ChaCha8) AppendBinary(b []byte) ([]byte, error)
    AppendBinary implements the encoding.BinaryAppender interface.

func (c *ChaCha8) MarshalBinary() ([]byte, error)
    MarshalBinary implements the encoding.BinaryMarshaler interface.

func (c *ChaCha8) Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
    Read reads exactly len(p) bytes into p. It always returns len(p) and a nil
    error.

    If calls to Read and Uint64 are interleaved, the order in which bits are
    returned by the two is undefined, and Read may return bits generated before
    the last call to Uint64.

func (c *ChaCha8) Seed(seed [32]byte)
    Seed resets the ChaCha8 to behave the same way as NewChaCha8(seed).

func (c *ChaCha8) Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 returns a uniformly distributed random uint64 value.

func (c *ChaCha8) UnmarshalBinary(data []byte) error
    UnmarshalBinary implements the encoding.BinaryUnmarshaler interface.

type PCG struct {
	// Has unexported fields.
}
    A PCG is a PCG generator with 128 bits of internal state. A zero PCG is
    equivalent to NewPCG(0, 0).

func NewPCG(seed1, seed2 uint64) *PCG
    NewPCG returns a new PCG seeded with the given values.

func (p *PCG) AppendBinary(b []byte) ([]byte, error)
    AppendBinary implements the encoding.BinaryAppender interface.

func (p *PCG) MarshalBinary() ([]byte, error)
    MarshalBinary implements the encoding.BinaryMarshaler interface.

func (p *PCG) Seed(seed1, seed2 uint64)
    Seed resets the PCG to behave the same way as NewPCG(seed1, seed2).

func (p *PCG) Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 return a uniformly-distributed random uint64 value.

func (p *PCG) UnmarshalBinary(data []byte) error
    UnmarshalBinary implements the encoding.BinaryUnmarshaler interface.

type Rand struct {
	// Has unexported fields.
}
    A Rand is a source of random numbers.

func New(src Source) *Rand
    New returns a new Rand that uses random values from src to generate other
    random values.

func (r *Rand) ExpFloat64() float64
    ExpFloat64 returns an exponentially distributed float64 in the range (0,
    +math.MaxFloat64] with an exponential distribution whose rate parameter
    (lambda) is 1 and whose mean is 1/lambda (1). To produce a distribution with
    a different rate parameter, callers can adjust the output using:

        sample = ExpFloat64() / desiredRateParameter

func (r *Rand) Float32() float32
    Float32 returns, as a float32, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0).

func (r *Rand) Float64() float64
    Float64 returns, as a float64, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0).

func (r *Rand) Int() int
    Int returns a non-negative pseudo-random int.

func (r *Rand) Int32() int32
    Int32 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 31-bit integer as an int32.

func (r *Rand) Int32N(n int32) int32
    Int32N returns, as an int32, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n <= 0.

func (r *Rand) Int64() int64
    Int64 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 63-bit integer as an int64.

func (r *Rand) Int64N(n int64) int64
    Int64N returns, as an int64, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n <= 0.

func (r *Rand) IntN(n int) int
    IntN returns, as an int, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n <= 0.

func (r *Rand) NormFloat64() float64
    NormFloat64 returns a normally distributed float64 in the range
    -math.MaxFloat64 through +math.MaxFloat64 inclusive, with standard
    normal distribution (mean = 0, stddev = 1). To produce a different normal
    distribution, callers can adjust the output using:

        sample = NormFloat64() * desiredStdDev + desiredMean

func (r *Rand) Perm(n int) []int
    Perm returns, as a slice of n ints, a pseudo-random permutation of the
    integers in the half-open interval [0,n).

func (r *Rand) Shuffle(n int, swap func(i, j int))
    Shuffle pseudo-randomizes the order of elements. n is the number of
    elements. Shuffle panics if n < 0. swap swaps the elements with indexes i
    and j.

func (r *Rand) Uint() uint
    Uint returns a pseudo-random uint.

func (r *Rand) Uint32() uint32
    Uint32 returns a pseudo-random 32-bit value as a uint32.

func (r *Rand) Uint32N(n uint32) uint32
    Uint32N returns, as a uint32, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n == 0.

func (r *Rand) Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 returns a pseudo-random 64-bit value as a uint64.

func (r *Rand) Uint64N(n uint64) uint64
    Uint64N returns, as a uint64, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n == 0.

func (r *Rand) UintN(n uint) uint
    UintN returns, as a uint, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n == 0.

type Source interface {
	Uint64() uint64
}
    A Source is a source of uniformly-distributed pseudo-random uint64 values in
    the range [0, 1<<64).

    A Source is not safe for concurrent use by multiple goroutines.

type Zipf struct {
	// Has unexported fields.
}
    A Zipf generates Zipf distributed variates.

func NewZipf(r *Rand, s float64, v float64, imax uint64) *Zipf
    NewZipf returns a Zipf variate generator. The generator generates values k ∈
    [0, imax] such that P(k) is proportional to (v + k) ** (-s). Requirements:
    s > 1 and v >= 1.

func (z *Zipf) Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 returns a value drawn from the Zipf distribution described by the
    Zipf object.
