# math/rand (Go standard library)

Package rand implements pseudo-random number generators suitable for tasks such

Import path: math/rand   Toolchain: go1.26.4

package rand // import "math/rand"

Package rand implements pseudo-random number generators suitable for tasks such
as simulation, but it should not be used for security-sensitive work.

Random numbers are generated by a Source, usually wrapped in a Rand. Both
types should be used by a single goroutine at a time: sharing among multiple
goroutines requires some kind of synchronization.

Top-level functions, such as Float64 and Int, are safe for concurrent use by
multiple goroutines.

This package's outputs might be easily predictable regardless of how it's
seeded. For random numbers suitable for security-sensitive work, see the
crypto/rand package.

FUNCTIONS

func ExpFloat64() float64
    ExpFloat64 returns an exponentially distributed float64 in the range (0,
    +[math.MaxFloat64]] with an exponential distribution whose rate parameter
    (lambda) is 1 and whose mean is 1/lambda (1) from the default Source. To
    produce a distribution with a different rate parameter, callers can adjust
    the output using:

        sample = ExpFloat64() / desiredRateParameter

func Float32() float32
    Float32 returns, as a float32, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0) from the default Source.

func Float64() float64
    Float64 returns, as a float64, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0) from the default Source.

func Int() int
    Int returns a non-negative pseudo-random int from the default Source.

func Int31() int32
    Int31 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 31-bit integer as an int32 from
    the default Source.

func Int31n(n int32) int32
    Int31n returns, as an int32, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n <= 0.

func Int63() int64
    Int63 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 63-bit integer as an int64 from
    the default Source.

func Int63n(n int64) int64
    Int63n returns, as an int64, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n <= 0.

func Intn(n int) int
    Intn returns, as an int, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n) from the default Source. It panics if n <= 0.

func NormFloat64() float64
    NormFloat64 returns a normally distributed float64 in the range
    [-math.MaxFloat64, +[math.MaxFloat64]] with standard normal distribution
    (mean = 0, stddev = 1) from the default Source. To produce a different
    normal distribution, callers can adjust the output using:

        sample = NormFloat64() * desiredStdDev + desiredMean

func Perm(n int) []int
    Perm returns, as a slice of n ints, a pseudo-random permutation of the
    integers in the half-open interval [0,n) from the default Source.

func Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
    Read generates len(p) random bytes from the default Source and writes them
    into p. It always returns len(p) and a nil error. Read, unlike the Rand.Read
    method, is safe for concurrent use.

    Deprecated: For almost all use cases, crypto/rand.Read is more appropriate.
    If a deterministic source is required, use math/rand/v2.ChaCha8.Read.

func Seed(seed int64)
    Seed uses the provided seed value to initialize the default Source to a
    deterministic state. Seed values that have the same remainder when divided
    by 2³¹-1 generate the same pseudo-random sequence. Seed, unlike the
    Rand.Seed method, is safe for concurrent use.

    If Seed is not called, the generator is seeded randomly at program startup.

    Prior to Go 1.20, the generator was seeded like Seed(1) at program startup.
    To force the old behavior, call Seed(1) at program startup. Alternately,
    set GODEBUG=randautoseed=0 in the environment before making any calls to
    functions in this package.

    Deprecated: As of Go 1.20 there is no reason to call Seed with a random
    value. Programs that call Seed with a known value to get a specific
    sequence of results should use New(NewSource(seed)) to obtain a local random
    generator.

    As of Go 1.24 Seed is a no-op. To restore the previous behavior set
    GODEBUG=randseednop=0.

func Shuffle(n int, swap func(i, j int))
    Shuffle pseudo-randomizes the order of elements using the default Source. n
    is the number of elements. Shuffle panics if n < 0. swap swaps the elements
    with indexes i and j.

func Uint32() uint32
    Uint32 returns a pseudo-random 32-bit value as a uint32 from the default
    Source.

func Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 returns a pseudo-random 64-bit value as a uint64 from the default
    Source.


TYPES

type Rand struct {
	// Has unexported fields.
}
    A Rand is a source of random numbers.

func New(src Source) *Rand
    New returns a new Rand that uses random values from src to generate other
    random values.

func (r *Rand) ExpFloat64() float64
    ExpFloat64 returns an exponentially distributed float64 in the range (0,
    +[math.MaxFloat64]] with an exponential distribution whose rate parameter
    (lambda) is 1 and whose mean is 1/lambda (1). To produce a distribution with
    a different rate parameter, callers can adjust the output using:

        sample = ExpFloat64() / desiredRateParameter

func (r *Rand) Float32() float32
    Float32 returns, as a float32, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0).

func (r *Rand) Float64() float64
    Float64 returns, as a float64, a pseudo-random number in the half-open
    interval [0.0,1.0).

func (r *Rand) Int() int
    Int returns a non-negative pseudo-random int.

func (r *Rand) Int31() int32
    Int31 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 31-bit integer as an int32.

func (r *Rand) Int31n(n int32) int32
    Int31n returns, as an int32, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n <= 0.

func (r *Rand) Int63() int64
    Int63 returns a non-negative pseudo-random 63-bit integer as an int64.

func (r *Rand) Int63n(n int64) int64
    Int63n returns, as an int64, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n <= 0.

func (r *Rand) Intn(n int) int
    Intn returns, as an int, a non-negative pseudo-random number in the
    half-open interval [0,n). It panics if n <= 0.

func (r *Rand) NormFloat64() float64
    NormFloat64 returns a normally distributed float64 in the range
    -math.MaxFloat64 through +[math.MaxFloat64] inclusive, with standard
    normal distribution (mean = 0, stddev = 1). To produce a different normal
    distribution, callers can adjust the output using:

        sample = NormFloat64() * desiredStdDev + desiredMean

func (r *Rand) Perm(n int) []int
    Perm returns, as a slice of n ints, a pseudo-random permutation of the
    integers in the half-open interval [0,n).

func (r *Rand) Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
    Read generates len(p) random bytes and writes them into p. It always returns
    len(p) and a nil error. Read should not be called concurrently with any
    other Rand method.

func (r *Rand) Seed(seed int64)
    Seed uses the provided seed value to initialize the generator to a
    deterministic state. Seed should not be called concurrently with any other
    Rand method.

func (r *Rand) Shuffle(n int, swap func(i, j int))
    Shuffle pseudo-randomizes the order of elements. n is the number of
    elements. Shuffle panics if n < 0. swap swaps the elements with indexes i
    and j.

func (r *Rand) Uint32() uint32
    Uint32 returns a pseudo-random 32-bit value as a uint32.

func (r *Rand) Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 returns a pseudo-random 64-bit value as a uint64.

type Source interface {
	Int63() int64
	Seed(seed int64)
}
    A Source represents a source of uniformly-distributed pseudo-random int64
    values in the range [0, 1<<63).

    A Source is not safe for concurrent use by multiple goroutines.

func NewSource(seed int64) Source
    NewSource returns a new pseudo-random Source seeded with the given value.
    Unlike the default Source used by top-level functions, this source is
    not safe for concurrent use by multiple goroutines. The returned Source
    implements Source64.

type Source64 interface {
	Source
	Uint64() uint64
}
    A Source64 is a Source that can also generate uniformly-distributed
    pseudo-random uint64 values in the range [0, 1<<64) directly. If a Rand r's
    underlying Source s implements Source64, then r.Uint64 returns the result of
    one call to s.Uint64 instead of making two calls to s.Int63.

type Zipf struct {
	// Has unexported fields.
}
    A Zipf generates Zipf distributed variates.

func NewZipf(r *Rand, s float64, v float64, imax uint64) *Zipf
    NewZipf returns a Zipf variate generator. The generator generates values k ∈
    [0, imax] such that P(k) is proportional to (v + k) ** (-s). Requirements:
    s > 1 and v >= 1.

func (z *Zipf) Uint64() uint64
    Uint64 returns a value drawn from the Zipf distribution described by the
    Zipf object.
