# strconv (Go standard library)

Package strconv implements conversions to and from string representations of

Import path: strconv   Toolchain: go1.26.4

package strconv // import "strconv"

Package strconv implements conversions to and from string representations of
basic data types.

# Numeric Conversions

The most common numeric conversions are Atoi (string to int) and Itoa (int to
string).

    i, err := strconv.Atoi("-42")
    s := strconv.Itoa(-42)

These assume decimal and the Go int type.

ParseBool, ParseFloat, ParseInt, and ParseUint convert strings to values:

    b, err := strconv.ParseBool("true")
    f, err := strconv.ParseFloat("3.1415", 64)
    i, err := strconv.ParseInt("-42", 10, 64)
    u, err := strconv.ParseUint("42", 10, 64)

The parse functions return the widest type (float64, int64, and uint64), but if
the size argument specifies a narrower width the result can be converted to that
narrower type without data loss:

    s := "2147483647" // biggest int32
    i64, err := strconv.ParseInt(s, 10, 32)
    ...
    i := int32(i64)

FormatBool, FormatFloat, FormatInt, and FormatUint convert values to strings:

    s := strconv.FormatBool(true)
    s := strconv.FormatFloat(3.1415, 'E', -1, 64)
    s := strconv.FormatInt(-42, 16)
    s := strconv.FormatUint(42, 16)

AppendBool, AppendFloat, AppendInt, and AppendUint are similar but append the
formatted value to a destination slice.

# String Conversions

Quote and QuoteToASCII convert strings to quoted Go string literals. The latter
guarantees that the result is an ASCII string, by escaping any non-ASCII Unicode
with \u:

    q := strconv.Quote("Hello, 世界")
    q := strconv.QuoteToASCII("Hello, 世界")

QuoteRune and QuoteRuneToASCII are similar but accept runes and return quoted Go
rune literals.

Unquote and UnquoteChar unquote Go string and rune literals.

CONSTANTS

const IntSize = strconv.IntSize
    IntSize is the size in bits of an int or uint value.


VARIABLES

var ErrRange = errors.New("value out of range")
    ErrRange indicates that a value is out of range for the target type.

var ErrSyntax = errors.New("invalid syntax")
    ErrSyntax indicates that a value does not have the right syntax for the
    target type.


FUNCTIONS

func AppendBool(dst []byte, b bool) []byte
    AppendBool appends "true" or "false", according to the value of b, to dst
    and returns the extended buffer.

func AppendFloat(dst []byte, f float64, fmt byte, prec, bitSize int) []byte
    AppendFloat appends the string form of the floating-point number f,
    as generated by FormatFloat, to dst and returns the extended buffer.

func AppendInt(dst []byte, i int64, base int) []byte
    AppendInt appends the string form of the integer i, as generated by
    FormatInt, to dst and returns the extended buffer.

func AppendQuote(dst []byte, s string) []byte
    AppendQuote appends a double-quoted Go string literal representing s,
    as generated by Quote, to dst and returns the extended buffer.

func AppendQuoteRune(dst []byte, r rune) []byte
    AppendQuoteRune appends a single-quoted Go character literal representing
    the rune, as generated by QuoteRune, to dst and returns the extended buffer.

func AppendQuoteRuneToASCII(dst []byte, r rune) []byte
    AppendQuoteRuneToASCII appends a single-quoted Go character literal
    representing the rune, as generated by QuoteRuneToASCII, to dst and returns
    the extended buffer.

func AppendQuoteRuneToGraphic(dst []byte, r rune) []byte
    AppendQuoteRuneToGraphic appends a single-quoted Go character literal
    representing the rune, as generated by QuoteRuneToGraphic, to dst and
    returns the extended buffer.

func AppendQuoteToASCII(dst []byte, s string) []byte
    AppendQuoteToASCII appends a double-quoted Go string literal representing s,
    as generated by QuoteToASCII, to dst and returns the extended buffer.

func AppendQuoteToGraphic(dst []byte, s string) []byte
    AppendQuoteToGraphic appends a double-quoted Go string literal representing
    s, as generated by QuoteToGraphic, to dst and returns the extended buffer.

func AppendUint(dst []byte, i uint64, base int) []byte
    AppendUint appends the string form of the unsigned integer i, as generated
    by FormatUint, to dst and returns the extended buffer.

func Atoi(s string) (int, error)
    Atoi is equivalent to ParseInt(s, 10, 0), converted to type int.

func CanBackquote(s string) bool
    CanBackquote reports whether the string s can be represented unchanged as a
    single-line backquoted string without control characters other than tab.

func FormatBool(b bool) string
    FormatBool returns "true" or "false" according to the value of b.

func FormatComplex(c complex128, fmt byte, prec, bitSize int) string
    FormatComplex converts the complex number c to a string of the form (a+bi)
    where a and b are the real and imaginary parts, formatted according to the
    format fmt and precision prec.

    The format fmt and precision prec have the same meaning as in FormatFloat.
    It rounds the result assuming that the original was obtained from a
    complex value of bitSize bits, which must be 64 for complex64 and 128 for
    complex128.

func FormatFloat(f float64, fmt byte, prec, bitSize int) string
    FormatFloat converts the floating-point number f to a string, according to
    the format fmt and precision prec. It rounds the result assuming that the
    original was obtained from a floating-point value of bitSize bits (32 for
    float32, 64 for float64).

    The format fmt is one of
      - 'b' (-ddddp±ddd, a binary exponent),
      - 'e' (-d.dddde±dd, a decimal exponent),
      - 'E' (-d.ddddE±dd, a decimal exponent),
      - 'f' (-ddd.dddd, no exponent),
      - 'g' ('e' for large exponents, 'f' otherwise),
      - 'G' ('E' for large exponents, 'f' otherwise),
      - 'x' (-0xd.ddddp±ddd, a hexadecimal fraction and binary exponent), or
      - 'X' (-0Xd.ddddP±ddd, a hexadecimal fraction and binary exponent).

    The precision prec controls the number of digits (excluding the exponent)
    printed by the 'e', 'E', 'f', 'g', 'G', 'x', and 'X' formats. For 'e', 'E',
    'f', 'x', and 'X', it is the number of digits after the decimal point.
    For 'g' and 'G' it is the maximum number of significant digits (trailing
    zeros are removed). The special precision -1 uses the smallest number of
    digits necessary such that ParseFloat will return f exactly. The exponent is
    written as a decimal integer; for all formats other than 'b', it will be at
    least two digits.

func FormatInt(i int64, base int) string
    FormatInt returns the string representation of i in the given base, for 2
    <= base <= 36. The result uses the lower-case letters 'a' to 'z' for digit
    values >= 10.

func FormatUint(i uint64, base int) string
    FormatUint returns the string representation of i in the given base,
    for 2 <= base <= 36. The result uses the lower-case letters 'a' to 'z' for
    digit values >= 10.

func IsGraphic(r rune) bool
    IsGraphic reports whether the rune is defined as a Graphic by Unicode.
    Such characters include letters, marks, numbers, punctuation, symbols,
    and spaces, from categories L, M, N, P, S, and Zs.

func IsPrint(r rune) bool
    IsPrint reports whether the rune is defined as printable by Go, with the
    same definition as unicode.IsPrint: letters, numbers, punctuation, symbols
    and ASCII space.

func Itoa(i int) string
    Itoa is equivalent to FormatInt(int64(i), 10).

func ParseBool(str string) (bool, error)
    ParseBool returns the boolean value represented by the string. It accepts 1,
    t, T, TRUE, true, True, 0, f, F, FALSE, false, False. Any other value
    returns an error.

func ParseComplex(s string, bitSize int) (complex128, error)
    ParseComplex converts the string s to a complex number with the precision
    specified by bitSize: 64 for complex64, or 128 for complex128. When
    bitSize=64, the result still has type complex128, but it will be convertible
    to complex64 without changing its value.

    The number represented by s must be of the form N, Ni, or N±Ni, where N
    stands for a floating-point number as recognized by ParseFloat, and i is
    the imaginary component. If the second N is unsigned, a + sign is required
    between the two components as indicated by the ±. If the second N is NaN,
    only a + sign is accepted. The form may be parenthesized and cannot contain
    any spaces. The resulting complex number consists of the two components
    converted by ParseFloat.

    The errors that ParseComplex returns have concrete type *NumError and
    include err.Num = s.

    If s is not syntactically well-formed, ParseComplex returns err.Err =
    ErrSyntax.

    If s is syntactically well-formed but either component is more than 1/2 ULP
    away from the largest floating point number of the given component's size,
    ParseComplex returns err.Err = ErrRange and c = ±Inf for the respective
    component.

func ParseFloat(s string, bitSize int) (float64, error)
    ParseFloat converts the string s to a floating-point number with the
    precision specified by bitSize: 32 for float32, or 64 for float64. When
    bitSize=32, the result still has type float64, but it will be convertible to
    float32 without changing its value.

    ParseFloat accepts decimal and hexadecimal floating-point numbers as defined
    by the Go syntax for floating-point literals. If s is well-formed and near a
    valid floating-point number, ParseFloat returns the nearest floating-point
    number rounded using IEEE754 unbiased rounding. (Parsing a hexadecimal
    floating-point value only rounds when there are more bits in the hexadecimal
    representation than will fit in the mantissa.)

    The errors that ParseFloat returns have concrete type *NumError and include
    err.Num = s.

    If s is not syntactically well-formed, ParseFloat returns err.Err =
    ErrSyntax.

    If s is syntactically well-formed but is more than 1/2 ULP away from the
    largest floating point number of the given size, ParseFloat returns f =
    ±Inf, err.Err = ErrRange.

    ParseFloat recognizes the string "NaN", and the (possibly signed) strings
    "Inf" and "Infinity" as their respective special floating point values.
    It ignores case when matching.

[floating-point literals]: https://go.dev/ref/spec#Floating-point_literals

func ParseInt(s string, base int, bitSize int) (i int64, err error)
    ParseInt interprets a string s in the given base (0, 2 to 36) and bit size
    (0 to 64) and returns the corresponding value i.

    The string may begin with a leading sign: "+" or "-".

    If the base argument is 0, the true base is implied by the string's prefix
    following the sign (if present): 2 for "0b", 8 for "0" or "0o", 16 for "0x",
    and 10 otherwise. Also, for argument base 0 only, underscore characters are
    permitted as defined by the Go syntax for integer literals.

    The bitSize argument specifies the integer type that the result must fit
    into. Bit sizes 0, 8, 16, 32, and 64 correspond to int, int8, int16, int32,
    and int64. If bitSize is below 0 or above 64, an error is returned.

    The errors that ParseInt returns have concrete type *NumError and include
    err.Num = s. If s is empty or contains invalid digits, err.Err = ErrSyntax
    and the returned value is 0; if the value corresponding to s cannot be
    represented by a signed integer of the given size, err.Err = ErrRange and
    the returned value is the maximum magnitude integer of the appropriate
    bitSize and sign.

[integer literals]: https://go.dev/ref/spec#Integer_literals

func ParseUint(s string, base int, bitSize int) (uint64, error)
    ParseUint is like ParseInt but for unsigned numbers.

    A sign prefix is not permitted.

func Quote(s string) string
    Quote returns a double-quoted Go string literal representing s. The
    returned string uses Go escape sequences (\t, \n, \xFF, \u0100) for control
    characters and non-printable characters as defined by IsPrint.

func QuoteRune(r rune) string
    QuoteRune returns a single-quoted Go character literal representing the
    rune. The returned string uses Go escape sequences (\t, \n, \xFF, \u0100)
    for control characters and non-printable characters as defined by IsPrint.
    If r is not a valid Unicode code point, it is interpreted as the Unicode
    replacement character U+FFFD.

func QuoteRuneToASCII(r rune) string
    QuoteRuneToASCII returns a single-quoted Go character literal representing
    the rune. The returned string uses Go escape sequences (\t, \n, \xFF,
    \u0100) for non-ASCII characters and non-printable characters as defined by
    IsPrint. If r is not a valid Unicode code point, it is interpreted as the
    Unicode replacement character U+FFFD.

func QuoteRuneToGraphic(r rune) string
    QuoteRuneToGraphic returns a single-quoted Go character literal representing
    the rune. If the rune is not a Unicode graphic character, as defined by
    IsGraphic, the returned string will use a Go escape sequence (\t, \n, \xFF,
    \u0100). If r is not a valid Unicode code point, it is interpreted as the
    Unicode replacement character U+FFFD.

func QuoteToASCII(s string) string
    QuoteToASCII returns a double-quoted Go string literal representing s.
    The returned string uses Go escape sequences (\t, \n, \xFF, \u0100) for
    non-ASCII characters and non-printable characters as defined by IsPrint.

func QuoteToGraphic(s string) string
    QuoteToGraphic returns a double-quoted Go string literal representing s.
    The returned string leaves Unicode graphic characters, as defined by
    IsGraphic, unchanged and uses Go escape sequences (\t, \n, \xFF, \u0100) for
    non-graphic characters.

func QuotedPrefix(s string) (string, error)
    QuotedPrefix returns the quoted string (as understood by Unquote) at the
    prefix of s. If s does not start with a valid quoted string, QuotedPrefix
    returns an error.

func Unquote(s string) (string, error)
    Unquote interprets s as a single-quoted, double-quoted, or backquoted
    Go string literal, returning the string value that s quotes. (If s is
    single-quoted, it would be a Go character literal; Unquote returns the
    corresponding one-character string. For an empty character literal Unquote
    returns the empty string.)

func UnquoteChar(s string, quote byte) (value rune, multibyte bool, tail string, err error)
    UnquoteChar decodes the first character or byte in the escaped string or
    character literal represented by the string s. It returns four values:

     1. value, the decoded Unicode code point or byte value;
     2. multibyte, a boolean indicating whether the decoded character requires a
        multibyte UTF-8 representation;
     3. tail, the remainder of the string after the character; and
     4. an error that will be nil if the character is syntactically valid.

    The second argument, quote, specifies the type of literal being parsed and
    therefore which escaped quote character is permitted. If set to a single
    quote, it permits the sequence \' and disallows unescaped '. If set to a
    double quote, it permits \" and disallows unescaped ". If set to zero,
    it does not permit either escape and allows both quote characters to appear
    unescaped.


TYPES

type NumError struct {
	Func string // the failing function (ParseBool, ParseInt, ParseUint, ParseFloat, ParseComplex)
	Num  string // the input
	Err  error  // the reason the conversion failed (e.g. ErrRange, ErrSyntax, etc.)
}
    A NumError records a failed conversion.

func (e *NumError) Error() string

func (e *NumError) Unwrap() error
